that's where his focus says. and so, for us, that's the reason that 81 million americans turned out to send joe biden to the white house in the first place. and it's in stark contrast to what donald trump and the republicans bring to the table, and unfortunately, and our political climate, you know, the people who go at and be their chest about everything that they do get the attention. that's not new joe biden's. but the at the end of the day, that's exactly why joe biden was elected four years ago. >> quentin folks, you have a lot on your plate. thank you so much for joining me here this evening. and that does it for me tonight. be sure to follow theshowon twitter, tiktok, and instagram, and a reminder that you can listen to every episode of theshowas a podcast for free. therachelmaddowshowis coming up up next. it actually starts right now. hi,rachel. >> hi, jen. much appreciated, my friend. thank you very much. >> thank you. sfwloo and thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. very happy to have you with us. the young man is not from there, not from the place where he
works. he's from another country but he's gone to ireland to work in ireland. he works actually in this very nice restaurant in dublin. coincidentally, this has been in the press in the united states recently. it just got a rave write-up in "the new york times" in an article called adventures on dublin's culinary trail where they single out this restaurant for its ambience and its hospitality and its food. this young man who works there, he's 17, and he is from france. he's not irish. he's come over from france to go to ireland, work at this restaurant. he has like an intern job in the kitchen. and this past week on thursday, on our thanksgiving day here, this young man, 17 years old, he was on his way to work, about 1:30 in the afternoon, and he happened upon a man with a knife
who was in the middle of attacking someone. and the kid jumped into the fray. he was armed with absolutely nothing at all. the kid struggled with this armed man. he actually got cut on his hands and his face in the struggle. but the kid managed to get the knife out of this guy's hands. the restaurant that the kid works at, they posted this photo of him online and a testimony to how proud they are of him and what he did. they said not all superheroes wear capes. the irish times also reports that the president of france, emmanuel macron, placed a call to this young man, thanking him personally on behalf of his country, thanking him on behalf of france, for what he did in rushing in to stop that attack while he was on his way to work in dublin, in ireland. this man is also not from there.
he is from brazil. he's from rio de janeiro. he's been in ireland for only about a year. he moved to ireland for work, and again, on our thanksgiving day, on thursday, he was also at work in dublin. he was driving a scooter for a food delivery company, a company called deliveroo, and on his deliveroo scooter, he passed what he thought at first was a fight. he slowed down because he thought it was a fight in progress. it turned out not to be a fight. it was that same man, the man with the knife, in the middle of what appears to have been a totally unprovoked knife attack, the brazilian delivery driver was apparently the first passer-by to realize what was happening on the sidewalk that day. he stopped his -- he pulled over, stopped his scooter. he ran over to the man with the knife. he took off the motorcycle helmet that he was wearing, and he used his motorcycle helmet to hit the guy. he clocked the guy in the head
with the motorcycle helmet, which knocked the guy down, and then once the guy was on the ground, he hit him once more in the helmet. once the man with the knife was down on the ground thanks to the delivery driver taking off his motorcycle helmet and using it to hit the guy and knock him down, that's when other passers-by were able to get to the guy as well to hold him down, frankly to hit him some more, but that is also when the 17-year-old, the french kid from the restaurant, was able to get the knife out of the guy's hand, himself getting cut in the process. but it was passers-by who stopped it. the kid from the restaurant and the delivery driver on the scooter playing crucial roles. the delivery driver gave a statement to police after the police arrived on the scene. he also gave a statement to a local news organization about what happened. and then another local guy, another local guy from dublin, decided to start a gofundme, asking people toshowtheir appreciation by buying the guy a
proverbial pint. the gofundme said the man is a hero and the least we can do is buy him a pint. so i'm asking you to donate the price of a pint of guinness in your local so he knows the people of dublin appreciate him. so again, the attack was thanksgiving day, on thursday. the gofundme for the delivery driver was posted on friday. by saturday, it had raised more than $300,000 gryos. donors give over 300,000 euros for immigrant who intervened in dublin stabbing. many people in ireland and beyond are saying thanks by buying him a proverbial pint. as of tonight, i just checked before we got on the air, more than 33,000 people have made donations to that gofundme to say thank you to the delivery driver on the street. now, the knife attack that these two men, the brazilian guy and
the french guy, the knife attack they intervened in in dublin on thursday, it was a terrible attack. three little kids were hurt, one of them quite seriously, also a child care worker who had stepped in to try to protect the little kids. the man who stabbed these people, nobody knows why he did it, but he was stopped by these passers-by on the street before the police were able to get there. once the police got there, he was arrested. almost immediately after this attack, right-wing social media outlets including twitter here in the united states, and right-wing political groups locally, they started spreading speculation about who the attacker was and why he did it. they called for people to come out and riot against immigrants in dublin. and people did. and they burned a bus, they smashed up cars including police cars. they looted stores, they attacked hostiles and hotels where people thought immigrants were staying. but again, it was a brazilian
immigrant delivery driver who clocked the guy in the head with his helmet and stopped the attack. it was this young kid from france who got the knife off the guy once and for all. so you get -- you are here. you get the terrible attack. senseless, horrific attack. you also get hero immigrants stopping it. you also get anti-immigrant riots, then you also get people showing great thanks and kindness and generosity to the heroes. it's like a moral tug of war for the soul. and honestly, the more people who are tugging in the wrong direction on that rope, the more people are needed on the other side to pull the other way. you might have seen coverage over the last few days of a career u.s. state department official, a guy who served under multiple presidents, who was for some reason stalking and
harassing a random egyptian guy who worked at halal cart in the east side. over a period of weeks, this guy just harassing and abusing and racially taunting this guy, taunting him for being muslim, taunting him for being an immigrant, taunting him from being from the middle east. the alleged harasser here has now been arrested. he's charged with multiple crimes including aggravated harassment and stalking. t meanwhile, on the upper east side of manhattan, the neighbors who live around where this happened, the neighbors who live nearby to this food cart where this guy had been harassing and attacking the guys who work at the cart, the neighbors there have rallied to support these beleaguered guys at the food truck who did nothing to derve what they got. neighbors have been lining up to make sure they have more business than they have ever had. neighbors baked one of them a cake for his birthday last week and brought the cake to the food cart. they set up a table and chairs
next to the food cart so people can sit down and eat together and get to know each other. it's the sort of stuff that's notng to solve everything. it's not going to undo what has been done, even in this specific incident, but it's a tug. it's a tug on one side of the moral tug of war. it's showing up, a kind ofshowof heart. it's not always easy to find a way to do that, though. on saturday afternoon, three friends were walking down the street in burlington, vermont. these are three guys who have known each other since they were kids. they're all 20 years old now. they all went to the same quaker school together growing up. now they're 20 years old, college aged, and all in great schools. one goes to trinity school in connecticut, one goes to brown university in rhode island, one goes to haverford college. they were in vermont for thanksgiving weekend because the
kid who goes to brown, his family lives in burlington where he spent a lot of time growing up. his uncle and his mom's mom. his mom's brother and his mom's mom live next door to each other in burlington, quite near the university of vermont. again, he spent tons of time there growing up and apparently both for this thanksgiving and for the previous few thanksgivings he and his friends are gone there to spend thanksgiving with him and his extended family. this is the young man at brown, a picture of him with his mom in the center there, and his grandmother on the right, the young man goes to brown, obviously, the gentleman on the left there. the young man who goes to haverford college in pennsylvania, he is in the running for cutest baby pictures of all time, including in his superman suit on the right here. here he is in a more recent photo with his mom. his mom obviously very proud of him, at haverford college, he's premed, a trained emt, also a
competitor on the track team at haverford. so these two young men along with their friend who goes to trinity clege in connecticut, the young man who you see on the left side of the screen here, on saturday, they were all walking down the street together in burlington, vermont, some reports said they had just gone bowling together and were walking around the neighborhood. and without any warning at all, a 48-year-old man came out of his apartment building, didn't say a word. but pulled a gun and shot all three of them. he wasrmed with what police say was a 38 caliber handgun. the man has since been arrested, charged with three counts of attempte murder. he has pled not guilty. he's being held without bail. but now, t young man from trinity college, the man on the left, the young man from haverford, the man on the right there, they're both hospitalized in stable condition. one shot in the chest, one shot in the back side.
the young man in the center of your screen, the young man from brown, had bullet that hit him apparently hit his spine. his condition is more serious. his prognosis is more uncertain. today, the uncles of two of these young men came forward to speak for their families. >> everybody, my name is rich price. i'm the uncle of one of the shooting victims, hisham, he's my nephew, and i'm proud to be here with radi, who is the uncle of kinnan, and will you join me? we speak only on behalf of the family because the family can't be here. i want to say that these three young men are incredible. and that's not just proud uncle speaking but it's true. they are -- they have their lives in front of them. they are committed to building incredible lives. they each go to great schools. they were our house guests for
thanksgiving as they have the past few thanksgivings. we had just been to my 8-year-old twins' birthday party. these three college students who if you're in college, who wants to go to an 8-year-old birthday party? but these three guys did, and they came, they played with my boys. we had just come home and they were walking around the block, and this is when this happened. my sister lives in the occupied west bank. and people often ask me, aren't you worried about your sister, aren't you worried about your nephews and your niece? and the reality is, as difficult as their life is, they are surrounded by incredible sense of community. and tragic irony is not even the right phrase, but to have them come stay with me for thanksgiving and have something like this happen speaks to the level of civic vitriol, speaks
to the level of hatred that exists in some corners of this country. it speaks to a sickness of gun violence that exists in this country. and i'm proud of even though this is devastating that this happened in this community, i am really proud and grateful to the community that is here and has rallied around our family and these boys. >> i'm still processing everything. i just got here from california. and walked right in, as you saw. we consider ourselves very lucky at this point, as far as kinnan's family is concerned. not so with hisham and tahseen, we're praying for them and still in shock over this. as he stated, kinnan grew up in
the west bank, and we always thought that could be more of a risk in terms of his safety. and sending him here would be, you know, the right decision. we feel somehow betrayed in that decision here, and you know, we're just trying to come to terms with everything. >> we feel somehow betrayed in that decision. the man who police say committed this crime on saturday in vermont, as i mentioned, he is under arrest. he's charged with three attempted murders, trying to kill these three palestinian american young men. he's being held without bail. at this point, there's no hate crimes enhancement that prosecutors are asking for in conjunction with these crimes. the state's attorney explicitly said they're still trying to understand the motive. but here this is. you know, happening in our time, in our country, to collectively our kids, our american kids. which puts us all on the spot,
for trying to find a way toshowup morally, to try to find a way to make a moral difference, to add our share of strength, pulling toward what we think is right. joining us now is radi, the uncle of kinnan, who is still in the hospital recovering from a gunshot wound. i really appreciate you being here tonight. i know this is a really hard time. >> thank you for having me,rachel. >> so, what i have been able to describe tonight is what we have been able to put together through public reporting and the statements that are made today at the press conference that you were part of. nbc news has also spoken with hisham's mother. let me just ask if you and your family know anything further that you can add to our understanding of the situation or certainly if there's anything that i explained there that i might have gotten wrong. >> no, i believe -- i heard your
explanation, and i think that was accurate. at this time, i wouldn't be able to speak to any of those facts right now. >> okay. can you give us any update on how kinnan is doing? >> well, i would start by saying first off how incredibly proud we all are of these three boys. the level of resilience they're showing really has us all in awe as they're going through this. you know,rachel, they knew each other since birth, these boys are best of friends. and you know, we believe that's creating -- well, allowing them, anyway, to lean on each other.
and to get through this very hard time together. that being said, we know obviously there's a long road to recovery ahead. but we're all optimistic and hopeful. >> you said today that you feel somewhat betrayed by the decision that your family made in terms of thinking about his safety. obviously, kinnan grew up in the west bank. these three young men know each other from going to quaker school together in ramallah in the west bank. the idea that it would be safer for them, particularly right now, for them to be in the united states, for them specifically to be in a place like vermont. you said that you felt a sense of betrayal about that. sort of calculus having proven to be so surprisingly and awfully wrong. i wonder if you could explain a little more about what you meant
by that. >> yeah. i am a palestinian american. i was born and raised here, but i did spend high school and a little university in palestine. so i have kind of my foot, you know, in both worlds. and you know, we really value academics, education and academics. and we thought you know bringing kinnan from a place where there's a military occupation, constant threat of violence against him, bringing him out of that and into america where i grew up and felt safe for the most part, so that he could
pursue his dreams, only for that to happen, something so tragic for him to be violently attacked here in a small town in vermont is really quite shocking. and i think it speaks really directly to the climate that we're seeing and the language being used in particular towards palestinians or to describe palestinians over the last couple months and over the last years and decades, in fact,rachel. i think this has opened the door to something like this happening, and we're seeing the effects. and i personally believe it wasn't a matter of if but really when something like this was going to occur. >> radi, the uncle of kinnan, i
know your nephew has, as you said, a long road ahead of him in terms of recovery, but thank you for talking to us about it tonight. and keep us apprised. we would love to have you back, we would love to speak with your nephew when we know he's going to be better. >> thank you very much.   a world away from burlington, vermont, information continues to come in tonight about hostages who have been released by hamas in gaza, another exchange of hostages from gaza and palestinian prisoners being held by israel. we're going to have an update tonight in particular on an israeli family who we met in the very early days of this crisis. all very live issue right now. lots of this developing over the course of the late evening. we have more ahead tonight. stay with us. tonight stay with us with a dreamy honey taste.
nyquil honey, the nighttime, sniffing, sneezing, couging, aching, fever, honey-licious, best sleep with a cold, medicine. liberty mutual customized my car insurance and i saved hundreds. with the money i saved, i started a dog walking business. oh. [dog barks] no it's just a bunny! only pay for what you need. ♪liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty.♪ my name is caron and i'm from brooklyn. i work for the city of new york as a police administrator. i oversee approximately 20 people and my memory just has to be sharp. i always hear people say, you know, when you get older, you know, people lose memory. i didn't want to be that person. i decided to give prevagen a try. my memory became much sharper. i remembered more! i've been taking prevagen for four years now. prevagen. at stores everywhere i was on a work trip when
the pulmonary embolism happened. but because i have 23andme, i was aware of that gene. that saved my life. [music “this little light of mine”] in the world's poorest places, children with cleft conditions live in darkness and shame. they're shunned, outcast, living in pain. you can reach out and change the life of a suffering child right now. a surgery that take as little as forty five minutes and your act of love can change a child's life forever.
please call, scan or go online to give a new smile. thousands of children are waiting.

inside the carter presidential library and museum in atlanta, georgia, where former first lady rosalynn carter is lying in repose this evening and where the public has been invited to pay their respects. rosalynn carter died a week ago at age 96. her husband of 77 years, former president jimmy carter, himself is 99 years old. he, as you know, has been in
hospice care since early this year, since february, but he is expected to attend memorial services for his wife tomorrow in atlanta, if he's feeling well enough. we hope he is. also in attendance tomorrow will be president joe biden and vice president kamala harris, and their spouses, along with lots of other dignitaries including all four living former first ladies. tomorrow will be sort of the high point of a multi-day remembrance of mrs. carter. and it's the sort of civic centerpiece of what is happening right now in the great state of georgia. but this solemn and lovely moment in georgia comes at a time when georgia itself continues to be in some ways the center of american politics or at least the center of some of the most interesting things in american politics. just before the thanksgiving break, we got the worrying but
also totally inevitable feeling news about republican officials in three different counties in georgia deciding that they would refuse to certify this year's election results. these are republican officials in three different counties who refused to vote to certify their county's local election results from earlier this month. these were run of the mill elections, run of the mill election results. there was not necessarily anything wrong with these elections or with the results. the elections basically went off just fine. it's just that their republican elections officials, and so why would they vote to certify an election result? this is just kind of becoming the default republican position now. elections are inherently suspect, all of them. and you can't count on republican officials to certify those results. not everywhere, at least. in these three georgia counties,
these republican officials were outvoted and the results were therefore certified. but georgia republicans are pretty clearly telegraphing their intentions for next year, when, you know, amid lots of other important things, the presidential race could very easily come down to a closely fought swing state like georgia. one county board refusing to certify its election results could throw the whole state and therefore the whole election into chaos. so good times. that's ahead. thanks, georgia. and simultaneously, we have also now got several suburbs north of atlanta that are in fulton county, georgia, but they no longer want fulton county to run their elections. these conservative leaning suburbs have declared they don't trust fulton county so they want to run their elections themselves as individual towns. they want to run them the way they did in the horse and buggy days. these towns want fulton county to take their fancy newfangled voting machines and, you know,
put them where the sun doesn't shine. these towns are saying they will hand count all their ballots, thank you very much, with like an abacus and a mypillow. it will all be so much cheaper. how much could it cost to run an election and hand count thousands of ballots? this plan is in part the brain child of one of georgia's fake republican electors, one of the folks who submitted forged folks who submitted forged documents claiming that --

we urgently need
1000 new monthly donors in the next 30 days to help the children we support around the world. you can help provide food, medicine, care and protection, plus so much more that a child needs by calling right now and giving just $10 a month. all we need are 1000 monthly donors in the next 30 days. please call or go online now with your monthly gift of just $10. thanks to generous government grants every dollar you give can have up to ten times the impact. and when you call with your credit card, we will send you this save the children® tote bag as a thank you for your support. your small monthly donation of just $10 could be the reason a child in crisis survives. please call or go online to hungerstopsnow.org to help save lives today.

[narrator] covered california is a free service from the state that's already helped millions of people like you get and pay for health insurance. with financial health to lower the cost of health coverage, you could get a quality health plan for less than $10 a month. every plan covers preventive care, doctor visits, emergency care, and more. if you have questions, we're here to help every step of the way. covered california. this way to health insurance. enroll by december 31 at coveredca.com.
hey, so here's some good news that you may not have heard anywhere else. good news in terms of us being a small "d" democracy. so as a general matter, one big fundamental threat to democracy and the rule of law is when the justice system and law enforcement has to bow to the powerful. when prosecutors who investigate powerful people or who bring charges against powerful people find themselves targeted for doing so. when prosecutors learn to expect that if you investigate or indict someone with political power, that will likelyigate you attacked and potentially removed from your job, that dynamic is a very dangerous, very corrosive thing to the rule of law and
therefore to democracy. and this past year, republicans in the great state of georgia gave themselves the ability to pursue that exact course of action. around the time that the high profile, high stakes investigation of former president donald trump was starting to bear fruit in the state of georgia, the republican dominated legislature in that state drafted a new law, giving themselves new power, giving themselves a new commission that they would populate, that they would direct. and that commission would have the power to remove prosecutors in the middle of their terms in office. and the legislators who proposed this, some of them at least, were not shy about saying explicitly that the purpose of this or at least their intent once this thing passed, would be to use it to go after fult
county district attorney fani willis who has been leading the giant racketeering prosecution against former president trump for allegedly interfering in georgia's elections. so this has been this sort of sleeper story all along. lurking behind the larger story of trump's accountability, potentially even his eligibility for office. you know, is this not just an incoate threat, something you just worry about in a generalized sense. is this not just something you worry about in terms of trump and his allies going after individual prosecutors and people involved in the court system, and any one of these cases. are they going to try to do this systematically, are georgia republicans really going to use this power? they have given themselves the power effectively to remove prosecutors, and they did so right when a prosecutor brought charges against donald trump. are they going to try to use it? are they going to remove the prosecutor who has had the gall to bring these charges against
their guy? well, we might just have gotten an answer to that question. very quietly, on thanksgiving eve, while almost no one was looking, a very big deal thing happened in georgia. the georgia supreme court ruled on this issue. and they said that this law that the republicans passed that effectively gave them the ability to remove prosecutors, the supreme court said that this law cannot work as written. the court fundamentally declined to approve specific rules for how this commission would function in the real world. that decision has the practical effect of at least looking like it might kill this effort to oust fani willis as the fulton county prosecutor unless republican lawmakers go back to the drawing board and kind of start over. the georgia supreme court said it will not approve rules and
regulations for a new state commission empowered to sanction prosecutors, effectively rendering moot a law backed by governor brian kemp and other top republicans until lawmakers overhaul the measure. oh, wait, they can still overhaul the measure? are they going to try to do that? joining us is professor clark cunningham, professor of law at georgia state university. and he is a professor we called on the past to help us understand this dynamic in georgia. i'm really grateful you could be hereof tonight. thanks for your time. >> glad to be with you,rachel. >> the ruling from the supreme court on thanksgiving eve, on wednesday, effectively said we do not believe that we as the court have the power to establish the rules by which this commission would do this work. is that a fair layman's way to summarize what they did? >> yeah, i think that's true. the law that was passed by the georgia legislature last spring
provided that the rules that would put the commission into business had to be first approved pie the georgia supreme court, and the georgia supreme court announced on thanksgiving eve that they weren't going to do that. therefore, the commission cannot proceed at this point. >> in terms of the overall, like, sort of where that puts us on the board game, like on the chutes and ladders here, how close we are to the end, if the ultimate goal of this that i think a lot of observers like me worry about, is that this would give the legislature effectively indirectly but effectively give them the power to remove prosecutors who are doing things they don't like, does this bring things right back to square one, right back to the beginning of the board, or is there an opportunity for the legislature to respond to the court effectively and in short order in a way that would put this back on track?
>> well, you know, it's not clear what the next steps are going to be. nothing is going to happen before the end of the year because the georgia legislature is a part-time legislature so they won't be back in business for this probably until the new year, they're meeting for redistricting right now. you know, one legislator who was very much a proponent of the bill, has apparently been quoting as saying this is a quick fix, that they can get it done in january. but this bill has really brought an outlash of criticism from some unexpected places. both the district attorney's association, what are called the solicitor generals in georgia, both have come out strongly opposed to the bill, the national prosecuting attorneys council has come out opposed to the bill. and i don't know that the legislature expected prosecutors who are generally, i think, favorites of our legislature, to be so strongly opposed.
and there are a lot of problems with the bill, which was passed in a very hasty way. not just the glitch that the supreme court identified but there are other problems with the bill as well. and i think it's quite possible that it might be the legislature will abandon this project or if not they'll have to do some significant reworking of the bill so that the commission doesn't have as much unregulated power as it seems to have under the bill that was passed last year. this past year. >> in terms of public interest and public pressure and how the legislature might sort of assess its own appetite for going back and trying to do this again, reopening this against the kind of elite pressure you were describing there, i was recently in atlanta for just a stop on my book tour, i was talking about a totally different matter and this came up in conversation during the event, and there was kind of a roar from the audience where i was surprised that people felt very connected to
this issue, seems very worried about it. i was asked about it a number of times in georgia. that might be a self-selecting sample of people who heard me talk about it, but is it your sense this is something the press is following, the public is following, that people know about the potential seriousness of what this could mean if this was allowed to go into effect given what the legislature would have to do to get there? >> well, republican leaders, particularly in the state senate, really, i think, overplayed their hand because within a couple days after the effective date of the law, they filed this pretty venal complaint against district attorney fani willis to try to get the commission to remove her from office. and unfortunately, i think, did themselves and the law a real damage in terms of credibility, because the complaint they filed was quite obviously political. it didn't have much bearing to it. i think that was an immediate
signal to people that in fact the bill could be abused. that's what the prosecuting attorneys association here in georgia had been warning about, that it could be misused for political purposes, and sure enough, within a couple days, the republicans in the state senate, the majority leader, i guess proved them to be right. >> professor clark cunningham, law professor at georgia state university, expert in legal ethics and constitutional law. i know we bug you about this bill, this law, this commission all the time to help us stay abreast on it. we really appreciate -- >> i compliment you guys for staying on top of this issue. it's an important one. >> well, i think it's important too. i realize it's not exactly a huge media scrum that's following this issue, but i think this is an absolutely crucial ethical issue and you helped us more than anybody in understanding it. >> glad to do so. good evening.   again, this situation in
georgia, you know, one of the things being adjudicated in several of the trump civil and criminal cases is the question of whether or not former president trump is allowed to impugn or attack or talk about people involved in the court system, the prosecutors, other people that are involved in essentially adjudicating these cases. georgia is the one place where the legislature, the republican dominated legislature, gave themselves the power to not just criticize but remove the prosecutor, essentially for any reason they wanted. they did that while this case was pending against trump. the law passed, became -- went into effect. it has been stopped essentially with this glitch at the supreme court right now. what professor cunningham was just describing in terms of the pressure the legislature may feel as to whether or not that kind of action is proper, is okay, whether there might be too much pushback to it, is a snapshot of what it takes to hold on to a democracy.
i mean, bad actors trying antidemocratic things try all sorts of things. usually what they're doing is testing to see how much they can get away with. and then it's the project of everybody else who is trying to uphold the democracy to give them very clear feedback on what they can't get away with. it's happening right now in georgia. >> all right, more to come here tonight. stay with us. stay with us
my mom's life is the most important thing to me. hi mom! i called my mom, "i have this gene and i think you need to get tested." she feels like it was truly lifesaving.


theo's nose was cause for alarm, so dad brought puffs plus lotion to save it from harm. puffs has 50% more lotion and brings soothing relief. don't get burned by winter nose. a nose in need deserves puffs indeed. america's #1 lotion tissue. what causes a curve down there? who can treat this? stop typing, and start talking. it could be a medical condition called peyronie's disease, or pd. you're not alone, there is hope. find a specialized urologist who can diagnose and treat pd. visit makeapdplan.com today.   so 52 days ago, a man named
yayir, and his girlfriend mirif, and his sons. 12-year-old and 16-year-old sons, 52 days ago, these four were all kidnapped by hamas in southern israel from a kibbutz. just two days after they were kidnapped we spoke with one of their family members right here live on theshow. >> get back our family, get our loved ones. that should be the top priority, nothing else. all the rest will come later. we can talk about a lot of things, but right now, we need them back home safe and sound. >> again, that was just two days after they were kidnapped. tonight, yanif gave up an update. the two boys, 12-year-old and 16-year-old have been released. they were part of today's
exchange of israeli hostages for palestinian prisoners. we reached yanif, the man who we spoke with 50 days ago, we reached him in israel tonight. he told us we are waiting in the hospital for their return with my mom, my sister, and my brother. we are in a situation of happiness mixed with worry and sadness. the two boys are in israel, but my brother and his girlfriend are still there, meaning still in gaza, and still held captive. we strive for a sign about their status. we wish for their safe and fast return. as of tonight, 50 hostages who are israeli and 19 hostages of other nationalities have been released, as part of these deals struck last week between israel and hamas. this was the moment on friday when a mother and her children who were held hostage were first reunited with the rest of their family. the oldest daughter who is 4 years old is telling her father
she dreamt they were going home. a 9-year-old hostage reunited with his dad, his mother and his grandmother who were also held hostage, they were right behind him. they also got out. this was 9-year-old hostage emily hand, reuniting with her dad yesterday. the idf had originally reported her dead after the october 7th attack by hamas. she's very much alive and for her to be home safe now is amazing. here was israeli hospital staff yesterday, applauding the arrival of three men from thailand, three thai nationals who had been held hostage. here's a different israeli hospital staff yesterday, applauding filipino man, a filipino national, who had been held hostage, he finished his medical checkup and was cleared to leave. here's yet another israeli hospital staff applauding a 78-year-old israeli hostage as she left the hospital and headed
toward freedom today and reuniting with her family. as of tonight, we have seen 150 palestinians released from israeli prisons as part of this exchange of prisoners for hostages. our colleagues at sky news were there to witness some of those reunifications in east jerusalem. >> once police have moved on, we found the family, welcoming back their 17-year-old son who had been held for a year without conviction, for throwing stones. >> prison was humiliating and they came in and beat us ever since the war began. we were treated like dogs. >> it's a gift from god. it's as if it's a miracle. >> tonight was originally supposed to be the last night of the agreed pause in fighting and hostage exchange, but hours before tonight's exchange, both sides agreed to do more. they both agreed to an
extension, so that means there will be two additional days of temporary cease-fire, two additional rounds of hostages released and prisoners released. the hostages and prisoners exchanged between the two sides. watch this space. you're replacing me? customize and save with liberty bibberty. he doesn't even have a mustache. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ hey, you should try new robitussin honey medi-soothers for long-lasting cough and sore throat relief. try new robitussin lozenges with real medicine and find your voice. you know? we really need to work on your people skills. children are the greatest joy and our best hope for a better future. friends, they are the future. but did you know that millions of kids right here in our own backyard are facing hunger every day without healthy food it's harder to grow, to thrive, to feel their best.
the impact when children don't have enough to eat is tremendous, because when you're hungry and your basic needs aren't being met, you cannot learn. that's why i'm here now, asking you to join me in helping end child hunger in america. this is a problem we know how to solve and we can do it better by supporting no kid hungry for just $0.63 a day, only $19 a month. you can help provide healthy meals like a good breakfast in class to power kids through their days. breakfast in the classroom contributes to kids being more focused, which leads to higher grades, test scores and simply just their well-being. ensuring all kids get a good breakfast and other nutritious food is a beautiful thing. it's a game changer and you can help make it happen when you join me in supporting no kid hungry today. that food is not just food. it's energy, health, confidence, hope, and even love.
yes, love. so please call now or go online to helpnokidhungry.org right now give $19 a month, only $0.63 a day. and when you use your credit card, you'll get this special team t-shirt toshowthat you're helping kids build a brighter future for themselves. thank you. families are struggling to make ends meet. these are hard times, but together we can help connect america's kids with meals. so please call now or go online to give. thank you.
you're probably not easily persuaded to switch mobile providers for your business. but what if we told you it's possible that comcast business mobile can save you up to 75% a year on your wireless bill versus the big three carriers? it's true. plus when you buy your first line of mobile, you get a second line free. there are no term contracts or line activation fees. and you can bring your own device. oh, and all on the most reliable 5g mobile network nationwide. wireless that works for you. it's not just possible, (inspirational music) - [narrator] wounded warrior project helps post-9/11 veterans realize what's possible. with generous community support. - aaron, how you doing buddy? - [narrator] we bring warriors together and empower them to become stronger inside and out. - it's possible to begin healing
- to get the help you need. - to find peace. - [narrator] and as each warrior's needs evolve, so do we. because these last 20 years are just the beginning.