c1   okay, we're looking live at pittsburgh pennsylvania where kamala harris is about to speak at her second to last rally of the night. it's election eve. and therachelmaddowshowstarts right now.rachel, this is like a very exciting election eve to be watching. >> this is like the first, kind of the first time you've been on one of these particular roller coasters with us, jen. you have been through campaigns in a lot of different ways and
a lot of different capacities you've never been through one with the crazy town clown car of work that is doing it on msnbc. >> i'm not watching you eat jerky, and nicole wallace eat pellets. and kerwacki run around. this is my first of sorts. what should i know. >> you're much better than us than the rest of us just arriving, just getting here. every election is different. we're expecting kamala harris to speak momentarily. >> any moment, yeah. >> in pittsburgh. forgive me jen, this is the rally. we have katy perry who's going to be performing as well.
election. as tim walz says, you'll all sleep when you're dead. and she certainly hasn't been sleeping a lot. they're also doing seven other, kind of, remote rallies across the country, which i haven't actually seen done before, as many of these as i've done, to really reach people naul sorts ofch states outside of pennsylvania too. >> yeah. i mean, it's been -- i will say the discipline of the harris campaign in terms of the way they have just absolutely run to every single corner of every one of the seven swing states, we've got colin allred on theshowthis hour tonight. and in prepping to talk to him tonight about his senate race against ted cruz in texas, i realize, like, oh, right, kamala harris went to texas to do an event -- >> recently. >> recently. but that's, kind of, the only time other than "saturday night live" that anybody was able to prybl her out of the seven stat. >> that's right. >> they've been so disciplined on this stuff.
today she was in allen town, pennsylvania. she was in redding, pennsylvania, in a puerto rican restaurant. she's in pittsburgh right now. we're p seeing cedric the entertainer, who's aboutth to introduce her. then she's going to be in philly tonight on the art museum steps, the rocky steps, which is going to be aep blowout rally. i've got friends at the philly rally right now. it seems that's going to be an epic finale for this campaign. >> we don't know what's going t happen tomorrow. we'll all be sitting on the set together talking about it. but a part of this is, as you said, her discipline in going back again and again and again and again to thesein states. that's what you have to do. >> hayep. >> you have to shake voters' hands. you have to make sure they know you. she did it iney 107 days. we'll seen what happens. but that is a big story of her -- how she ran the campaign. >> a very, very, very disciplined campaign. certainlyli if she doesn't win it's not going to be for lack or trying, right? this has been an incredible amount of shoe leather and heart
and effort that we've been watching. jen, i will see you tomorrow. cedric the entertainer wrapping up hisnt introduction of vice president kamala harris at her penultimateer campaign rally in pittsburgh, pennsylvania. let's go rightn to it. ♪ hey i'm keep running ♪ ♪ because i winner don't quit on themselves ♪ >> hello, pittsburgh! everybody! hi! can we hear it for cedric the entertainer? okay, everyone.
pittsburgh, are we ready to do this? are we ready to vote? are we ready to win? >> yes! >> oh. it is good to be here tonight with all these leaders. i thank you all so very much. i want to thank representatives le -- let's send them back to the u.s. house of representatives. please send bob casey back to the united states senate. and i thank everyone for being here and taking the time out of your busy lives to be here this evening. i lovee you back. i love you back. i love you back. all right. so, pittsburgh, this is it.
tomorrow is election day. tomorrow is election day. and the momentum is on our side. our campaign has tapped into the ambitions, the aspirations, and the dreams of the american people, and we know it is time for a new generation of leadership in america. and i am ready to offer that leadership, as the next presidentsh of the united state. but we've still got some work tw do. look, the race is not over, and we must finish strong. so, nilisten, here's the thing about the hard work. we like hard work. hard work is good work. hard work is joyful work.
and make no mistake, we will win. we will win. we will win. we will win. and we will win because when you know what you stand for, you know what to fight for. and we have an opportunity in this election to finally turn the page on a decade of politics driven by fear and division. we are done with that. we're done. we're done. we're exhausted with it. andd pittsburgh, we are not gog back! we're not going back. >> [ crowd chanting ] we're not going back! >> and we are not going back because america is ready for a fresh start.
and we're ready for a president who knows the true measure of a leader is not based on who you beat down. it is based on who you lift up. and instead of stewing over an enemies nglist, i will spend evy day working on my to do list full of priorities to improve yourpr life because ours is not fight against something. it is a fight for something. it is a fight for the future, and it is a future for freedom like the fundamental freedom of a woman to make decisions about her own body and not have her government tell her what h to d. and when congress passes a bill to restore reproductive freedom
nationwide, as president of the united states, i will proudly sign it into law. proudly. proudly. so america, i am asking for your vote. i am asking for your vote. and here is my pledge to you. as president, i pledge to seek common ground and common sense solutions to the challenges you face. i am not looking to score political points. i am looking to make progress. i pledge to listen to those who will be impacted by the decisions i make. and we are not going back. >> [ crowd chanting ] we're not going back. >> and here's the thing, guys.
we are fighting for a democracy. we are fighting for a democracy. and in a democracy, true leadership understands that the leaderst listens to the experts and listens to people who disagree with them. i will listen to people who disagree with me because i do not believe that people who disagree with me are the enemy. in fact, i will give them a sea at the table. that is what real leaders do. that is what strong leaders do. and i pledge to always put country above party and self and to be a president for all americans. so, pittsburgh, that is my pledge to you. and to you i ask then, who here has a plan to vote?
fantastic. okay. so, help spread the word then. polls are open here in pennsylvania tomorrow from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. you know that. go to iwillvote.com for all the information you need including where and when to vote and where to dropte off your mail ballot because we need everyone to vote, pennsylvania. you will make the difference in this election. you will make the difference. and friends, listen, we are all here together because we love ourov country. we love our country. and when you love something, you fight for it. and i do believe it is one of the highest forms of patriotism -- i love you back. i love you back. and one y of the highest forms
our love of our country is to then fight for the ideals of our country and to fight to realize the promise of america. so, pittsburgh, listen. we've got one day left to get this done. so, now we work to get out the vote. t let's reach out in these next 24 hours to family and friends and classmates and neighbors and coworkers. and as we do that, let us reallu be true to what our campaign has been about from the very start. and on that, i say, please let us be intentional about building community. let us be intentional about building coalitions because here's the thing. so much about these last several years has been about trying to make people point their fingers at each inother, to have americs point their fingers at each other, to try and make people feelan alone or feel small.
but let us do the work as we work toward this win of building up community and coalition and reminding everyone that we have so much more in common than what separates us.se let that be our goal. and let us remind everyone, your vote is your voice, and your voice is your power! so, one last time, pittsburgh, i ask you, are you ready to make your voices heard? [ cheers and applause ] do we believe in freedom? >> yeah! >> do we believe in opportunity? >> yes! >> do we believe in the promise of america? >> yes! >> and are we ready to fight for it? >> yes! >> and when we fight --
>> we win! >> god bless you and god bless the united states of america. god bless you. ♪ freedom freedom ♪ ♪ i can't move ♪ ♪ freedom ♪ ♪ freedom freedom ♪ ♪ where are you ♪ ♪ i need freedom too ♪ ♪ i break chains myself ♪ >> vice president kamala harris. this is thein second to last campaign event she is going to do. this is pittsburgh, pennsylvania. she's at the kerry blast furnaces, which is a massive former steel mill site in pittsburgh that is now a national historic landmark. giving remarks here. you can hear that she is deep into a long day of campaigning that has come at the end of a long week of e campaigning that has come at the end of 107 long days ofd campaigning. you can hear the hoarseness in her voice. but stillin a very high energy performance from this candidate
tonight. high energy, clearly confident, clearly still enjoying herself. a huge crowd there in pittsburgh tonight. you can see the glee on people's faces to be catching a glimpse of her, as we head toward midnight, as we head toward the startow formally of election da. later on tonight she's got one more stop. he's going to be in philly on the rocky steps, the steps of the art museum in philly that everybody knows from the "rocky" movie. she's going to be there in a massive rally in philadelphia at the end of the night, heading there right now, as she wraps up this event in pittsburgh.   we're going to take a quick break. when we come back, we've got a wholeshowfor you. it's our last fullshowbefore the election. i think it's fair toas say it's goingto to be pretty different than every other lastshowyou've seen before the election either on this network or any others. that's just because i'm a weirdo. bigshowfor you. colin allred is here if us tonight live.s we've got a lot to get to.
i'll be right back after this break. stay with us. my name is brayden. i was five years old when i came to st. jude.
i'll try and shorten down the story. so i've been having these headaches that wouldn't go away. my mom, she was just crying. what they said, your son has brain cancer. it was your worst fear coming to life. watching your child grow up is the dream of every parent. you can join the battle to save the lives of kids like brayden, by supporting st. jude children's research hospital . families never receive a bill from st. jude for treatment, travel, housing, or food, so they can focus on helping their child live . what they have done for me, my son, my family-- i'm sorry, yeah. life is a gift, especially for a child battling cancer. call or go online and help save another lives of children like brayden.
now, i'm 11 years old. we were actually doing the checkup for my brain. and they saw something in my throat. it's thyroid cancer. it was heartbreaking to find out that he has cancer again. but we knew who we had behind us. it just gives me hope. you can make a difference. join with your credit or debit card for only $19 a month. and we'll send you this st. jude t-shirt. without st. jude or its donors, we would have been in a bad place. these kids, they've done nothing wrong in the world. finding a cure for childhood cancer, it means everything. help st. jude give kids with cancer a chance. [audio logo] an alternative to pills, voltaren is a clinically proven arthritis pain relief gel, which penetrates deep to
target the source of pain with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medicine directly at the source. voltaren, the joy of movement.
♪♪   happy election eve, you guys. how are you marking election eve? may i suggest deep breaths?
may i suggest hydrate it? may i suggest putting the beer back in the fridge and the wine back on the shelf. there will be plenty of time for that some other time. but maybe not right now. i don't think that's the right way to handle stress right now. you can do it later if you want to. but this is an unusual time that we are in in our country and therefore in all of our individual lives. all right. we're not used to the secret service having to put up fencing around the u.s. capitol and the white house and the vice president's residence before an election. we're not used to stores in washington, d.c. boarding up their windows, right? we're not used to governors putting the national guard on standby because an election is getting underway. this is not how national elections have ever been before in the modern history of our country. but in the trump era of the republican party, that is what it means now to have a national election. so, for us americans, this is our time in american history. this is part of the legacy we will leave to future
generations. but right now on the eve of this election like no other, forgive me for just advising. forgive me for just saying like a psa, we all need to be at our best and we all need to be ready for anything. so, that's why i say, deep breaths, hydrate, get a good night's sleep, don't stress out. also don't check out because our country needs us all right now. and not just through this time tomorrow night. our country is going to need us all in the days ahead and for an uncertain period of time. and so now really isn't the time to fall apart or to wallow in stress or succumb to it and check out. now really is the time to try to get your head on straight, to try to get yourself ready for what we know will be some uncertainty and also fast-moving news. now is the time just to keep your whits about you.
and, you know, i know you're saturated in polling data at this point. i know you can recite the candidates' closing itineraries. trump closing in grand rapids, michigan. we just saw kamala harris doing her penultimate event in pittsburgh. she'll be closing out the campaign on the famous steps from the movie, "rocky." the final polls in the race both nationally and in the swing states, bottom line, candidates are tied or at least within the margin of error. in just a few cases they've got one of the candidates a point or two outside the margin of error. but honestly it's a tie. we could spend this last night -- we could spend election eve tonight going through all of that in detail. we're going to get real vote counts in less than 24 hours from now, so at this point, i think, why bother. so, let's -- let's talk instead tonight about -- about something that is in this election but that i don't think is getting that much attention.
and i think on election eve it may be the time to think about it. it's a national security story about this election. we're also going to talk about a crime story that relates to this election. and i'llshowyou what i mean about needing to take care of yourself right now, not just through tomorrow, not just through election day, but beyond that as well. and i want toshowyou what i mean by that by talking about a national security story and a crime story. we'll start with national security. all right. so, today, the day before our u.s. presidential election, today a whole new country just got involved in the combat in the war in ukraine. ukraine announced today that for the first time, its soldiers launched an attack against troops from a foreign country that russia has just brought in to support its own army on the border between russia and ukraine. russia has brought in another country now. they've brought in troops from north korea to fight their war in ukraine now. and the initial reports about this were that maybe a couple
thousand north korean soldiers were in russia. maybe they were there to observe the performance of north korean weapons that russia was using in its war. maybe they were just observers. then it became quickly clearly that they weren't just observers. there were too many for that. it was 2,000, maybe. no. it was maybe 10,000. maybe reports of 12,000 north korean troops. and they're not observers. they're combat troops. and russia has put them on the front line at the border between russia and ukraine. and today ukrainian forces said for the first time that they fired on those north korean troops. so, now, the biggest land war in europe since world war ii 80 years ago, it now also involves significant combat forces from another country, from north korea. and they are in the fight. they are in combat. russia, of course, has been using weapons already from north korea. they've been using weapons already from iran as well.
russia has the biggest nuclear arsenal in the world. they keep threatening to use it. they've now formed an alliance with the world's other two most notorious rogue states, who have either gone nuclear or have tried to, north korea and iran. and it's not just them. of all the october surprises for this year for our election, i mean -- and there's been a bunch from trump's longest serving chief of staff and his chairman joint chiefs of staff going on the record to confirm that they both believe trump is literally a fascist and that he wants to rule the united states as a fascist dictator to the shock iowa poll showing kamala harris, the democrat, winning in what's supposed to be a solid red state, to the release of a tape recording of disgraced conman and child rapist jeffrey epstein saying he and donald trump were best friends for a decade, to the collapse of trump's ability to fill a room. his closing string of empty
rally venues. i mean, there's been so many strange turns and twists and surprises and shocks at the end of this election campaign. but of all of the october surprises this year, this is the one that stuck to me like somebody pinned it to me with a dart. "the wall street journal" reporting that, quote, late last year, the kremlin made a request to the owner of the starlink satellite system to, quote, not activate starlink, that satellite system, over taiwan. the request was made by vladimir putin personally to the owner of the starlink satellite system. and that request was made to him, quote, as a favor to the chinese leader, xi jinping. so, here's vladimir putin waging war against one of our allies, biggest war in europe since world war ii. he's threatening to nuke anyone who trying to stop him. he's got iran on his side supplying him with weapons for that war. he's got north korea on his side supplying him with weapons and now sending him more than 10,000
combat soldiers to fight alongside his army. and he's apparently past along a friend request, a favor request, from the communist dictator of china, hey, starlink, don't turn on starlink satellites over taiwan. taiwan, of course, which is also an ally of the united states. and per "the wall street journal," the owner of starlink appears to have agreed to do this favor for the chinese dictator, the request passed on to him by his friend, the russian dictator, against this american ally. or at least per "the wall street journal" we can at least say the starlink service is in fact not activated over taiwan, after putin expressly requested that it not be activated over taiwan as a favor to him and as a favor to the leader of china. now, why is this an election story? why are you telling me this story on election eve,rachelmaddow?
this is an election story because the owner of starlink, the guy who's on the phone with the russian dictator in this story, he is currently what appears to be the defacto ceo of the donald trump for president campaign, not just funding his campaign personally to the tune of over $100 million, not just personally managing donald trump's ground game for voter turnout, but also turning his own social media company, twitter, into an all trump all the time conspiracy theory and propaganda machine that eagerly amplifies even the most obviously foreign disinformation, boosting trump and targeting his democratic opponents. walter isaacson reported in his most recent book on elon musk that musk was asked by the kremlin to not let ukraine use the starlink satellite system over the black sea where ukraine was targeting russian navy ships to sink them. "the wall street journal" reports that musk is now in
frequent and secret -- frequent and secret -- communication with putin and the russian government. and also that it is putin's russian troops who are now using elon musk's starlink service on the battlefield in their war against our ally, ukraine, even as he cuts ukraine off from that service at key strategic moments. so, you see where this is going? happy election eve, right? i mean, trump himself says he, quote, doesn't talk about his secret communications with putin. bob woodward's latest book reporting that trump himself has been in frequent secret communication with putin since trump left office and now while he is trying to get back into office. while putin is leading a new world axis, not just leading a war against our ally, ukraine, but leading a new world axis of russia, north korea, iran, and china against the united states. putin leading that axis against
the united states with the assistance of one particular american who holds multibillion dollar sensitive defense and space contracts with the u.s. government and who has mostly taken over the ground game operations and the funding of trump's presidential campaign. so, like i say, pace yourself. i mean, if trump wins the election, we pretty clearly are going to be joining the axis, right? these countries that most want america destroyed, that most want to remove the united states from the world stage, that want to destroy us as a country and diminish us as much as they can, this axis led by russia will be -- we'll be joining it if trump is elected. trump says our so-called allies he doesn't like while he's full of unreserved, totally
unqualified praise for the dictators in this axis. he has telegraphed that we will switch sides in the ukraine war, meaning we'll switch to putin's side, where he's now using north korean troops in battle. trump is full of praise for the north korean dictator. he has telegraphed that we'll leave nato, that we'll collapse nato. the countries in the world who are most violently opposed to the united states and most determined to seek the diminishment of america and the end of american influence on the world stage, they, if trump wins, will have their president installed with elon musk's help while musk is in direct and secret communication with vladimir putin, who heads up that axis. right. so pace yourself, right? if that happens, if trump wins, that's what's going to happen to america on the world stage. and americans who think that's a bad idea are going to have a lot of work to do, right? your country will need you. but also think about if he
loses. if trump loses, given that -- given what i just described, america's got a lot of work to do along these lines as well because just as a presidential campaign, this is a national security disaster. and one that president harris is going to have to clean up and quickly. i mean, you really can't have the head of a company that is the primary rocket launcher for the defense department and nasa, you can't have the head of that company in secret communications with america's worst enemy while america's enemy is actively waging a war against one of our allies, especially once you learn that he's using his businesses to help the other side, to help russia in that war. and apparently to do secret favors for china against our other allies, like taiwan. i mean, that can't be. i mean, also just for what it's
worth, presumably a high who is reported to have regularly used ketamine plus lsd, cocaine, 'shrooms, and smokes pot on a podcast, he can't have a security clearance, a personal security clearance. but you definitely can't have a security clearance, let alone that much leverage over american national security if you are doing anti-american diplomatic favors for dictators with whom you are in secret communication. so, buckle up. even if trump doesn't win, the defense department and nasa are going to need a new arrangement for all their rockets and for all the multibillion dollar contracts elon musk's companies have with the u.s. government. the u.s. government is going to have to either -- i mean, unwind from all of those contracts or elon musk's companies are going to have to unwind from him. this is an untenable reality in national security terms.
now that we know what we know about elon musk, this is election, regardless of who wins, has produced a national security problem that is going to be a huge new thing for our country to deal with, likely with tons of drama. and it will start as soon as we've got an election result either way. so, pace yourself if for no other reason than to be ready for that. let's also talk about crime in this election, right? everybody's talking about the polls. i know. let's talk about national security and about crime. you've seen all these headlines in the lead-up to election day tomorrow, particularly today. there's a ton of these headlines about right wing pro trump groups planning to sow chaos around polling sites and the election. right wing pro trump groups forming an army to try to stop the counting of votes. paramilitary pro trump groups planning to menace people. pro trump groups planning violence around the election. bringing back all the things they tried to do in 2020 to
overthrow that election up to and including the violence they tried on january 6th in washington to stop the certification of the vote. see all these headlines about it's all coming back, they're going to try it all again. you know what all of that is? all of that is crime. violence of any kind for any reason is a crime. intimidating election workers or public officials or voters is a crime. paramilitary militias are themselves a crime. the leader of the proud boys is serving 22 years in federal prison right now. i mean, even the fake electors, impersonating electors, that whole fake elector scheme was a crime. it was a crime in 2020. and just because you're thinking about trying it a second time doesn't make it any more legal than it was back then. law enforcement didn't know what these pro trump groups were going to try to do in 2020, right? law enforcement didn't know what these guys were going to do in
2020 any more than the pro trump groups did. they just felt their way through it and crimed stuff up as they went along. now law enforcement knows what the trump groups and the trump campaign are going to do. and if these guys are planning the exact same set of crimes in 2024, they're just planning on doing more of them in more places, this stuff doesn't get any less illegal. it just means there's going to be more arrests. tonight in philadelphia, the district attorney there just gave a news conference reminding anybody who's excited about committing crimes tomorrow to try to mess with the election -- he gave a press conference reminding that those crimes will be treated as crimes. just because you're thinking about doing your crimes for donald trump doesn't mean they're not crimes and that you won't be going to prison for committing them. watch this from the philly d.a. i mean, inject this straight into my veins honestly, but also -- please, just watch this. >> i want people to be reassured that when they get up tomorrow to go vote if they have not
voted already that everybody in this city is working and has been working for months to make sure that there will be nothing tough about that experience and nothing to fear in that experience. but i also want to be clear. anybody who thinks it's time to play militia, f around and find out. anybody who thinks it's time to insult, to derye, to mistreat, to threaten people, f around and find out. we do have the cuffs. we do have the jail cells. we do have the philly juries, and we have the state prisons. so, if you're going to try to turn an election into some form of coercion, if you're going to bully people, bully voters, you're going to try to erase votes, you're going to try any of that nonsense, we're not playing. f around and find out. >> pennsylvania officials also circulating the hotline you can
call to report voter intimidation in that state. f around and find out. we're not playing. that applies to anybody that wants to commit crimes targeting voters or polling sites or anything else about our election. it doesn't just hold in philly. it holds everywhere. i would just say one last point here. it also applies to anybody thinking about trying to paper over those crimes to try to give them an air of legality. there's a reason why rudy giuliani is not only under indictment right now, he also no longer owns any of his worldly possessions because rudy giuliani used his position as donald trump's lawyer to come after innocent poll workers in georgia who have now literally sued him out of his house and home. just a few days ago, thursday, halloween, the lawyer who quarterbacked the fake elector scheme for donald trump was indefinitely barred from ever practicing law in new york state again. i mean, while they are taking
away the law license of the guy who organized the fake electors last time, which got all the fake electors arrested, here's politico.com reporting say that republicans are nevertheless bringing all the fake electors back again to try it one more time. let me let you know, it is still illegal and you're all going to get arrested again. as the philly d.a. said, f around and find out. nobody's playing. trump fake electors guy kenneth chesebro was indicted and pled guilty to a felony and has now had his law license suspended. jenna ellis was indicted and pled guilty and had her law license suspended. john eastman has been indicted and had his license suspended. rudy giuliani has been indicted, has been permanently disbarred, and has been bankrupted for life. and that is just what happened to the lawyers. messing with an election in the united states of america is a crime.
this election, there is a lot to pay attention to. so pace yourself. people are going to try to rerun 2020 and interfere in the election, try to use violence to get their way. they are going to get arrested and they're going to go to prison. we are going to have that crime story to deal with if they try it. we are also going to have a big national security mess to clean up just from the trump campaign, even if harris wins. there's so much we're going to need to stand up for and be ready for, and it does not stop tomorrow no matter what happens tomorrow. so, my friends, deep breaths. hydrate. beer back in the fridge. wine back on the shelf. we have lots of work to do. tomorrow's just the start. t the. ? i'm thinking... (speaking to self) about our honeymoon. what about africa? safari? hot air balloon ride? swim with elephants? wait, can we afford a safari? great question. like everything, it takes a little planning.
or, put the money towards a down-payment... ...on a ranch ...in montana ...with horses let's take a look at those scenarios. j.p. morgan wealth management has advisors in chase branches and tools, like wealth plan to keep you on track. when you're planning for it all... the answer is j.p. morgan wealth management.
♪ ♪ have you always had trouble with your weight? same. discover the power of wegovy®. with wegovy®, i lost 35 pounds. and some lost over 46 pounds. and i'm keeping the weight off. i'm reducing my risk. wegovy® is the only weight-management medicine proven to reduce risk of major cardiovascular events such as death, heart attack, or stroke in adults with known heart disease and obesity. don't use wegovy® with semaglutide or glp-1 medicines, or in children under 12. don't take if you or your family had mtc, men 2, or if allergic to it. tell your prescriber if you are breastfeeding, pregnant, or plan to be. stop taking and get medical help right away if you get a lump or swelling in your neck, severe stomach pain, or any of these allergic reactions. serious side effects may include pancreas inflammation and gallbladder problems. call your prescriber if you have any of these symptoms. wegovy® may cause low blood sugar in people with diabetes,
especially if you take medicines to treat diabetes. call your prescriber about vision changes, if you feel your heart racing while at rest, or if you have mental changes. depression or thoughts of suicide may occur. common side effects include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, stomach pain, flu, or upset, headache, feeling tired, dizzy, or bloated, gas, and heartburn. some side effects lead to dehydration, which may cause kidney problems. with wegovy®,... ...i'm losing weight,... ...i'm keeping it off,... ...and i'm lowering my cv risk. check your coverage before talking to your prescriber about wegovy®. ♪♪ no. ♪♪ -no. -nuh-uh. ♪♪ yeah. oh. yes. ♪♪
oh yeah. yes. isn't this great? yeeaahhhh!! ♪♪ yeah, i could do a cartwheel in here. oh hey! would you like to join us? no. we would love to join you. ♪♪
check out this map of where kamala harris has campaigned since september. the bigger the circle, the more events she has done. you can see that the harris campaign has been incredibly disciplined about where they're sending the vice president. 11 events in wisconsin, 18 in michigan, 20 in pennsylvania. just a vast, vast majority of her events have been in the big seven swing states. except -- what's that one little circle? that tiny little circle in texas? the harris campaign, i imagine, doesn't have high hopes that they will win the presidential
race in texas. maybe, who knows? but that would be a really big deal. still though, on this most disciplined of presidential campaigns, vice president harris went herself to texas anyway late last month, late in october, where she held a huge rally in texas. and she campaigned with this guy, with democratic congressman colin allred, who is running a tight race to try to unseat republican senator ted cruz. kamala harris going to texas to campaign for colin allred. it's a very big veer off of what has otherwise been a very, very tight solemn through the swing states. and it shows you this incredibly disciplined, incredibly focused campaign thought it was worth it to spend time and resources in texas because they think this could be a winnable senate seat for a democrat in texas. joining us now is the man himself, congressman colin allred. he is the democratic nominee for
texas senate. congressman, it's great to see you. thanks so much. >> i appreciate it. >> is their faith in you well place snd are you going to win this seat? >> something special is happening in texas. you know, from campaigning with liz cheney to george bush expressing, i guess, his admiration for me, my constituent, to what's happening with these texas women coming forward telling their stories about these abortion bans. we're going to beat ted cruz and when we do it's going to be a win for 30 million abortions. >> texas has one of the most aggressive and mean spirited paths to that ban and the legislation and prosecution decisions have captured the nation's imagination, not just texans. but everybody's eyes are on texas and how cruel it's been and what the consequences have been for texas families, texas
women. a lot of people have said it's hard to poll on the impact of that, that it's a little bit of a black box we may be missing not just the impact among women but the impact among men and other people who are -- women and men who are concerned about what these bans mean. are you seeing that register in a legible way in your internal polling or do you know what to expect there? >> i think that every texan is having this conversation because it's dangerous to be pregnant in texas now. when we have over 100 ob/gyns writing open letters to the leaders of the state saying, this is not sustainable, when we have stories of texas women who died who should not have died because they were denied miscarriage care. this is now a daily conversation. and, you know, we had a great event the other night here in dallas, where i was talking to the men in the crowd because, you know, i'm a father. my wife and i have had two boys here in dallas in the last five
years. and i can't imagine how we would have felt if the doctor had come in and said there was a problem with the baby. there's nothing i can do because ted cruz thinks he knows better. i think you know we believe in freedom. that's one of the core tenets for us, and this is not it. that's why we're going to beat ted cruz. >> congressman, let me ask you one process question. we have seen that fewer texans voted early this year compared to 2020. there's no apples to apples comparison that's possible with 2020 because it was such a strange year because of covid. do you expect that the overall voter turnout is going to be a little lower in texas this year, or do you think so many people are going to turn up on election day and therefore people should be prepared for big lines? >> i think it's going to be a big election day. as you said, 2020 is a totally different year. we had an extra week of early voting. that's a big deal in texas. but we also can shape who comes out to vote tomorrow. i want folks to sign up to volunteer with us, to go to
colinallred.com. there's still time to knock on doors to get across that line. when we do, as i said, it's not a win for a party or me individually. it's going to be a win for 30 texan who is deserve a senator who doesn't abandon them when they need them most, one who doesn't just care about himself, one that cares about all of us. >> congressman senator colin allred, the next senator from the state of texas, at least he says he will be. let us know how tomorrow goes over the course of the day as you watch those long lines at texas polling places. we'll be checking in with you tomorrow as results come in. thank you, sir. >> we'll be right back. stay with us. you, sir >> we'll be right back stay with us power's out! -power's out! power's out! -power's out comcast business has you covered, with wifi backup to help keep you up and running. wifi's up. let's power on! let's power on! let's power on! -let's power on! it's from the company with 99.9% network reliability. plus advanced security.
let's power on! power on with the leader in connectivity. powering possibilities. comcast business. power's out. my mental health was better. but uncontrollable movements called td,tardive dyskinesia, started disrupting my day. td felt embarrassing. i felt like disconnecting. i asked my doctor about treating my td, and learned about ingrezza. ♪ ingrezza ♪ ingrezza is clinically proven to treat td, quickly reducing td by greater than five times at two weeks. number-one prescribed ingrezza has dosing that's always one pill, once daily. and you can keep taking most mental health meds. ingrezza can cause depression, suicidal thoughts, or actions in patients with huntington's disease. call your doctor if you become depressed, have sudden behavior or mood changes, or suicidal thoughts. don't take ingrezza if allergic. serious side effects may include allergic reactions like sudden, potentially fatal swelling and hives, sleepiness, the most common side effect, and heart rhythm problems. know how ingrezza affects you before operating a car or dangerous machinery. report fever, stiff muscles, or problems thinking, as these might be life threatening. shaking, stiffness, drooling, and trouble
with moving or balance may occur. take control by asking your doctor about ingrezza. ♪ ingrezza ♪ at harbor freight, we design and test our own tools and sell them directly to you. no middleman. just quality tools you can trust at prices you'll love. whatever you do, do it for less at harbor freight. ♪♪


♪♪   so, the last time donald trump ran for president, he lost, he spent the weeks between that election and moving day trying to overturn the results, along with the private match nations and the arm twisting, trump and his allies filed 65 separate lawsuits in search of a court that would somehow help him throw out the election results and keep him in power. in this election, a group called the 65 project, which is named for that failed effort, the 65 project in this election, their mission is to dissuade lawyers from pursuing trump's bogus, frivolous claims about the
election, to forcibly forcefully dissuade lawyers from playing a part in that kind of thing for a second time around. the managing director of the 65 project joins us now here on election eve. thank you very much for being here. appreciate your time. >> good to be here. thanks,rachel. >> so, i'm struck that as we head to election day tomorrow, even just in recent days we have had yet another of trump's lawyers had his law license suspended, kenneth chesebro, in new york city. in rudy giuliani's case, he has essentially lost all of his worldly goods in addition to being disbarred. do you think that a deterrent has been established heading into this next election cycle for lawyers to not do this stuff anymore when trump tells them to? >> i do think so,rachel. i think we can see that in a few ways. one is in the list of lawyers you have named who have faced discipline, jenna ellis, rudy giuliani, ken chesebro,
including names you wouldn't recognize from arizona, maryland, across the board. in addition to that, we've seen in perhaps less measurable ways. we've seen just a few weeks ago -- mitchell one of the most strident election denying attorneys said she could not find an attorney in pennsylvania who is willing to go on with a lawsuit with her, and she had to recruit somebody out of minnesota. the 65 project had filed ten bar complaints in pennsylvania, and we think part of the reason why she struggled was because of our efforts. we saw kari lake saying the same thing in 2022. she said she had -- lawyers to represent her, not because they were worried about facing discipline if they represent her. we're eager to continue. >> trump is expected to falsely claim victory, to baselessly claim victory before the results of the election are known. his allies, in many ways, have set the stage to claim the election is stolen or that an outcome is unknowable because
they've created the illusion of chaos or tried to create real chaos themselves. as you followed with such detail what they tried in 2020, you've created some of the consequences for those lawyers who participated in some of those 2020 schemes, what concerns you the most about ways they may try to muck with the election this time around starting tomorrow? >> well, they are not trying to win the lawsuits that they file. if their objective was to win them, the turn effect would have been created a long time. they lost case after case after case after case. their effort there is propaganda. they're using the lawsuits as a sheen to create this gloss over baseless, fraudulent, predetermined claims of a rigged election. and then they're hoping that that credibility, which would be lacking if it were coming from somebody with, you know, hair dye coming down his forehead speaking in front of a landscaping parking lot or
somebody in an orange vest in a garbage truck. they're using the court system to create that sheen, that gloss of credibility. that's the concern i have is that they're going to continue to use the legal system as a propaganda tool, which is why we have to create that accountability because otherwise they won't be deterred. >> you know, one of the lessons in fighting tyranny that tim schneider tells in his book on tyranny is that professional institutions, professional associations, need to police themselves to avoid becoming tools of the tyrant. project 65 is an exemplar of that in the legal profession. it means a lot. and i think it's been an exemplar not only for lawyers but to other professional associations and institutions in our civil society in terms of how to stand up to this stuff. michael teeter, manage director of the 65 project, thank you so much for joining us tonight. stay in touch over the next couple of days.   later tonight kamala harris will hold the final rally of her