therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. >> hey, jen. that was fantastic with chris wallace. i loved seeing all that archived tape of nixon being the man of the hour when the country needed
him. >> and nixon and kennedy. this crazy historic footage we have. it's amazing. >> fantastic. really enjoyed that. much appreciated. and thanks to you at home for joining us. reallyjo happy to have you here tonight. today, the stock market closed above 43,000 for the first time in t history. that's the dow jones industrial average hitting all-time highs. the s&p 500 hit its all-time high today as well. and this isn't a flash in the pan. we just hitn two years of this bull market. this year alone, the s&p 500 is up almost 23% in one year. inflation is where it was when trump left office. economic growth under the first three years of the biden/harris administration, we now know, is higher than economic growth was under the first three years of the trump administration. trump people don'tum likia to
count the fourth year. they don't like you to count the economic catastrophe we all experienced under trump in his fourth year in office. they say the pandemic in his fourth year, it means it shouldn't count. it shouldn't count anything that happened under his watch then, which isis frankly pretty weak e sauce, but even, you know, okay. even if you take him on those weak terms, and you cut out the real lived economic catastrophe on his watch during the pandemic, you know, other than that mrs. lincoln how was the play, even if you cut out his fourth year because of covid, we now know, economic growth under biden and harris is better. and in their first three years than it was under trump in his first three years. economic growth is up. wages are up. retail sales are good. interest rates are dropping. we are having record highs on wall street. biden and harris, this
administration, has produced the best job growth numbers of any presidential administration in american history by a mile. unemployment numbers are profoundly low and in a sustained way.ne the best unemployment numbers we have seen in decades. a few days ago, "the new york times" summed it all up sort of begrudgingly with this. quote, the economy is robust, by many measures the u.s. job market is as healthy as it has ever been. as healthy as it has ever been. in the history of the united states of america, we right now have the best job market we have ever had as a country as long ar we have existed as a country. at "the washington post" economist heather long recently put it this way under the headline, quote, this is a great economy. it says, quote, growth is strong, unemployment is low, inflation is back down.
many americans are getting sizable pay raises. middle class wealth has surged to record levels. the united states has nearly 7 million more jobs than it did before the pandemic. and we have the largest share of adults aged 25 to 54 working in more than two decades. the largest share working in 24 years. americans in the bottom 40% of income have experienced the fastest ofen all the wage growt. the largest surge in wealth since the end of 2019 has gone to the bottom 50% in income. bottom line, quote, 2024 is shaping up to be one of the best economic years of many americans' lifetimes. and regardless of what your priorities are for the election, the economy is generally seen as
the most important issue for the most voters. and because of that, because of that preference among voters, that interest among voters and what you're seeing in the economic news, you're now seeing the political press, again, sort of begrudgingly admit that, you know, yeah, well, it turns out the biden administration is leaving in its wake a fantastic economy. but when i say begrudging, i mean that the sort of subtext for all of it and sometimes the overt text of all it of it in the political press is yeah, yeah, it's a great economy. really great economy.co historically great economy.hi but surely, that can't benefit kamala harris, can it? i mean, i know you have seen headlines like this. this is a typical one from a couple days ago at politico.com. quote, harris is riding a dream economy into the election. it may be too late for voters to notice. it is a dream economy. i mean, as it says in the piece,
the unemployment rate stands add 4.1%. the s&p 500 stock index is up more than 20% this year.r. gdp has been growing at a robust 3% pace. middle class americans are more optimistic about their future. gas prices are falling. the economy added over a quarter million jobs in september alone. it is a dream economy. that is being left by the biden/harris administration.bi but harris can't possibly benefit from that politically, can she? i have a question for business people or for business minded people. or even just for people who say that business issues and economic issues are their main concern. that's what's driving them as they think about this election. and you know, i feel like even for those of us who don't think of ourselves as business minded peopless or as business people for people for whom that's our top priority.'s a lot of us have respect for
people who do define themselves that way. a serious way to look at the world, and maybe business issues aren't my top thing. maybe economic issues aren't my top thing. but if those are top concerns for you, credit to you. i'm interested in how you make your decision on those basises. and this issue about sort of making a business decision about your vote, a business decision about the election, this comes up all theth time when you lookt real world support for donald trump. when you f look at why, you kno relatively normal people say they're going toor vote for him. yes, yes, he tried to stay in power by siccing a violent mob on congress after he lost re-election. yes, he's awaiting sentencing after being convicted of 34 felonies. yes, he's awaiting trial on dozens more charges. yes, he told americans they could inject disinfectant for covid. yes, he gave pardons to all his
friends and got impeached twice and is running for election by talking about people with bad genes poisoning the blood of america, and we're going to round up tens of millions of people in america and put them in huge camps.ug yes, there are things about him that maybe aren't appealing, that maybe sound a little nutty. but you hear this all the time. but, you know, but his policies. if you're just an economic minded person, if you're just a businessre minded person, then you're sort of big enough, sort of above it all enough to not really care about or not even think about stuff like that. you're just in it for the policies. like georgia governor brian kemp said just last week. the same brian kemp that trump tries to force to throw out the election results from his state last time. kemp said he's voting for trump this time, anyway, he just said last nyweek, quote, look, you m not like donald trump
personally, but you'll like his policies. itser a business decision. you're making a business decision. so that's mostly what i want to talk about tonight. tell me, what is a business decision in this case? i mean, is it who will do a better job handling the economyh because as we come to the end of the biden/harris administration now, i mean, here's the special report that's just put out today by the economist magazine. the title is, quote, the american economy, the envy of the world. this is a multiday special report that's coming out now from the economist. here's the first installment in this multipartta series that's just out today. quote, the american economy has left other rich countries in the dust. that's the american economy at the end of the biden/harris administration. if you're making a business decision about who will do a better job handling the economy,
well, the biden/harris economy has not only left every other rich l country in the world in e dust, it has left the record of the trump administration in the dust. right?gh literally, what they're calling a dream economy. the best job market in the history of the united states. that's what biden, the biden/harris administration has done in their management of the u.s. economy. so is that what you're basing your business decision on? maybe it's not the broad question of who will do a good job withwi the economy, who has shown they can do a good job with the economy. maybe your business decision when it comes to this election is more specific.or maybe it's about the deficit. maybe you're a fiscal hawk, and that's the basis of your business decision that you're making aboutio who to support here. well, here's the headline today at the "wall street journal." quote, economists say inflation and deficits will be higher under trump than harris. quote, according to a quarterly
survey by the "wall street journal," most economists think inflation, interest rates, and deficits would be higher under the policies former president donald trump would pursue in a second administration than under those proposed by vice president kamala harris. quote, 65% of economists see trump's proposed policies putting more upward pressure on the federal deficit than kamala harris' policies. theis committee for a responsib federal budget estimates trump's plans would widen federal budget deficits by more than twice the expected increase under harris. so if that's the basis for your business decision about this election, if all you say you care about is fiscal responsibility and the deficit, bringing the deficit down, well, trump doubles harris. he laps harris in terms of what he's planning to pile on to the deficit. right. similarly, let's say your business decision on this election is on inflation.
well, that's also a business decision about this election that should point you in one direction. quote, of the o economists who responded to the "wall street journal's" question onto inflation, 68% said prices would rise faster under trump than under harris. 68%. 68% of economists don't agree that today isno monday or that e patriots suck this year. but 68% of economists agree that trump is proposing really bad policies if what you care about is y inflation. so what are you basing your business decision on when thinkingunts this election? maybe your business decision is less aboutin data and policy an it's more about just the kind of person youju want the candidateo be. you hear this all the time. from people who describe themselves aswh making a busine decision about how to vote. they say they want somebody centrist, somebody moderate, sensible. somebody right in the ermiddle. that's good r for business. somebody who can appeal to
reasonable people in both parties. if that's your approach to your business decision about this election, well, there is a candidate in this election who has a lot of very high profile support from people in the other party. just today, the harris campaign released the latest ad from another republican endorsing harris, in this case, the republican mayor of swing state arizona. i mean, there's like a campaign trail tour group now of former trump administration officials who are doing swing state eventw to tell people to not vote for the man they served under in the last presidential administration under trump, they are instead touring the swing states telling people to vote for kamala harris. notice that there's no equivalent for that on the other side. there's no group that's like former biden officials for trump or former obama officials for trump. there's nothing like that, but there are lots and lots of officials from former republican
administrations and from trump's own administration who are publicly begging americans by the dozens publicly begging americans to vote for harris and not for him. so just, i mean, just on the facts, if your business decision is economic performance broadly, thatma breaks for harris. if your business decision is the deficit, that breaks for harris. if your business decision is inflation, that breaks for harris. f if your business decision is on whether the candidate is bipartisan seeming and can appeal across both parties, clearly that's harris. but maybe your business decision is more petty or at least more personal. maybe you're making a business decision based on sort of sociologist, based on which candidate seems to have better relationships, more solid mutually respectful
relationships with actual people in business right now. and that's of course a little woollier. it's less of a data driven thing. but here, for your consideration, is a "new york times" major feature today, a feature, quote, based on interviews with more nan two dozen campaign officials, policy experts, donors, lobbyists, and business leaders. and this is all about how the harris campaign, quote, has carefully courted business leaders, organizing a steady stream of meetings and calls in which corporate executives and donors offer their thoughts on tax policy, financial regulation, and other issues. and now, again, personally, your mileage may vary on that as to whether or not you like that. but people who are supposedly making a business decision about the election along these lines will presumably love it, right? taking a carefully courted -- a carefully courting business leaders organizing a steady
stream ofni meetings and calls with corporate executives to hear their thoughts on tax policy and regulation. yeah. i mean, if you want a president who is mutually respectful and ongoing relationship, consultative relationship with the business community, you must love ssthat. right down to the harris campaign spokesman telling the times for the anpiece, if he wi, quote, ms. harris would continue to listen to the business community as shehe pursues a bo capitalist vision for the economy. quote, as president, kamala harris will continue to be open and pragmatic about how to deliver that vision forou the american people. said the spokesman. and again, this may or may not be youry thing. but business people cite this kind of thing all the time when they talk about what's important to them about making their own business driven decision about how they're going to vote and which candidate they're going to support. i mean,g on the other side, here's trump just a few days ago, bizarrely posting online
that he's very happy to have the endorsement of the ceo of jpmorgan chase. very happy to have the endorsement of jamie dimon. oh, jamie dimon's endorsement, isn't that wonderful? he made that up. jamie dimon has not endorsed trump for president. but trump went out and said that he did. presumably hoping that nobody would notice that he just made it up. i mean, if you're making your business decision on the election based on the perceived relationships between the candidate,n healthy consultati between the candidate and business leaders, this is not just ars theoretical thing. you do have stuff to go on, right? and a track record of it, like trump's big meeting with ceos that wasth organized for him by the business h roundtable this summer. remember how that worked out? headline, ceos at trump meeting say ex-president is, quote, meandering and, quote, doesn't know what he's talking about. former president donald trump
failed to impress everyone in a room full of top ceos this week, multiple attendees told cnbc. one ceo who was in the room said, quote, trump doesn't know what he's talking about. several ceos, quote, said that trump was remarkably meandering and could not keep a straight thought. and was all over the map. but maybe that's not how you're making your business decision about this election. maybe you're making this a business decision in the pure simple straightforward sense that you just want a good business person in the job. again, you hear this all the time from people who say this is the way they're approaching this election. good to have a person in there who has business skills. that would be great in a politician. somebody who has shown real savvy, real skill, as a player in the business world, who has that kind of experience. so it's not just the business company that he keeps, although it is that too, but it's also his own good business track
record. his good business judgment. well, you have stuff to go on here as well for making that kind of a decision about this election. i mean, one of the stories i think has been most underplayed in this whole campaign because there's never been anything like it before is what's going on in trump's business life right now. i mean, the history in trump's business life is all very obvious and very well known in terms of his own record. just even in the last few years, even in his years since he's been a public figure and a candidate for office, his foundation was shut down as a scam, his for-profit university was shut down as a scam, his family business which he inherited from his father was criminallyr convicted on tax fraud and owes hundreds of millions of dollars, and now in civil fraud penalties. the company was implicated as essentially the laundering entity in trump's own felony convictions for which he's going to be sentenced in november. he could be going to prison.
hicompany's cfo has done two recent stints in rikers because of the company's criminal behavior and his own. and that's all just the recent history of trump in business. that's all before this remarkable campaign season he's having right now in business. trump as a businessman is happening right before us. he's selling the commemorative silver coins with a cross between him and the chucky doll as the face on them. he's selling his creepy gold sneakers. he's selling his digital trading cards. he's selling his bibles. he's selling his watches, including the $100,000 watches that nobody has ever seen. but he promises that you'll get one if you send him the money, someday. i mean, imagine if kamala harris was doing anything like this in her presidential campaign, right? hello, foreignri enemy country organized crime leader, would you like to pay me a million dollar bribe while i'm here running and on the precipice of
becoming president? if you would like to bribe me, just buy ten of these supposed watches, and i'll never send them to you but i'll keep your million and pay you back when i'm yopresident. imagine if kamala harris was doing this. but anyway, if you're making a business decision on this election, and it's because you like the idea of somebody savvy and connected in business being there in the oval office, let mi just ask you this. about your business decision about this election. are you as a business minded person, are you positively inclined toward the very latest venture he has launched just literally weeks before the election? do you think this is an impressive move in business? headline, trump teams up with pickup artist for new crypto scheme. his business partners in his new cryptocurrency scheme are, number one, the founder of date
hotterde girls llc, and number two, an ex-con who was previously involved in a scam colon cleanse product that was advertised on facebook whose owner is now in prison. business partner for trump number two also calls -- i'm sorry to call him number two with the wholehi colon cleanse thing. never mind. but heth calls himself the dirt bag of the internet. here we are back to the colon cleanse. he calls himself the dirt bag of the internet. he's starred on podcasts like from broke to millionaire in 14 days. these are trump's business partners in husband new crypto venture. inyp terms of their most recent ventures before teaming up with trump, his new business partners founded recently an only fans porn competitor in puerto rico thatom reportedly crashed on launch day, lost its subscribers information, and it has now already gone out of business. they also founded another crypto company before this new one with
donald trump. ite was called dough finance, t doh like homer simpson, but doing like bread. still, though, you might call it doh finance, the one thing it's famous for is losing millions of dollars of its users' money because the computer code that was used by the dough finance guys had a gigantic flaw in it that let thieves walk away with the money that people had invested in dough finance. they just left the door open and the money was all taken. becauseke the code allowed thies to do that. well, according to the industry publication coin desk, that same code from dough finance appears to be, quote, remarkably similar to the code that the trump crypto company is going to be using for its new venture, which he's just announced weeks before the election. sounds like real savvy business stuff, right? real high-end stuff. trump has put both his adult
sons don jr. and eric the blond one on the pay roll as employees of this new crypto company. he's also putw on the pay roll his teenage son barron. barron has not just a job at the company, he has a job title at the company. barron trump is listed as the company's quote visionary. he is 18. because that sounds like a really high-end prestigious business, right? that sounds like a good business man, not at all a rinky dink shady making it up con man business. "new york times" reports that trump and his crypto business partners, their plan for this high-end impressive new business they're building, their plan ultimately is to use this crypto venture that they have just founded to, quote, restructure the national debt. of the united states.
that's the plan. i mean, surely, anybody making a business decision about this election is going to choose that kind of big brain business thinking, right? with the date hotter girls guy and the ex-con and they'll have the national debt taken care of because they're going to have barron the visionary restructuring it all. what was it brian kemp said? quote, look, you may not like donald trump personally but you'll like his policies. it's a business decision. you're making a business decision. but maybe that's not the kind of business decision you're making. maybe you're not moved one way or another by trump's personal business acumen and savvy. maybe you as a business person yourself just want to be left alone to run your business. you just want a government, a leader of the u.s. government who is going to leave business e alone, just not mess with you, not mess with the private sector. isat that the basis on which you're making your business decision in this election? because if so, have you met
trump's running mate? >> unless you're willing to make these people feel economic pain, there's no serious way to fight back against it. google, apple, delta, they're not going to stop beating up on georgia for passing common sense voter integrity measures just because we complain about it. or just because a congressional committee man sends a strongly worded letter to their ceo. the only way to push back against this stuff inay a real y is to make these companies feel economic pain. there are a lot of ideas out there for how to do it.to one idea is to basically end the preferential tax treatment we give to google. >> use the government, use the tax system to make these companies feel economic pain. so we can force them to do what we want for political reasons. >> we have to be willing to actually fight these companies with fire. we have to change that incentive and makee these companies
actually feel a little bit of pain for aligning with our enemies in the culture war. >> is your business decision about this election about wanting to be left alone by the government? leave the private sector alone, leave business alone? is your business decision about this election based on just a preference for small government? modest government that doesn't try to do too much? is that how you're making your business decision about this election? >> i think the thing we have to take awayng from the last ten years is that we really need to be really ruthless when it comes to the exercise of power. >> are you a small government person? modest government person? leave the private sector alone person? if your business decision about this next election is about business being leftec alone, abt small algovernment, you don't he the hardest decision in the world to make here. there have been a lot of
headlines recently about trump threatening to make media companies off the air, to use the government to punish abc, cbs, msnbc, nbc. use the government to punish media companies for airing an interview with kamala harris or airing criticism of trump, or moderating ap, debate that trum lost against harris. trump recently said about "the new york times," quote, wait what i'm going do with them. threatening that if he's president and what he said would be three, four, five days after he became president, he would do something to "the new york times." he called "the new york times," quote, disgusting. and hey, maybe nobody cares about the media, about news organizations as companies, but if you are making a business decision about this presidential election, do you think a president who says he's going to destroy media companies for criticizing him, do you think he's only going to do that to those kinds of companies? this summer, he threatened to
jail personally the head of facebook. he threatened to criminally prosecute google because he does not like the search results that google produces about him. when an online acquaintance of jd vance recently publiced some of his personal correspondence with vance in which vance criticized trump's record as president, trump's eldest son don jr., he immediately called for the government to take punitive action against t that man's employer, which happened to be the huge consulting firm deloitte. deloitte had nothing to do with this, an employee on his own time publishing his personal correspondence with invance, bu the trump family says the power of the u.s. government should now be trained against that company to punish them for having an employee who put out information critical of trump. so if you're making a business decision about this election, is
that the kind of business environment you're looking forward to, on purely business terms? i have a guest i'm really looking forward to talking to tonight. i'm going to invite him here in a moment. i want to give you one last ve thing. in the current issue of vanity fair, james polk has a profile of trump's former campaign manager, steve bannon, who is more influential than ever in trump world and by extension in the trump campaign even as he awaits the end of his prison sentence now. james polk writes, if you have enjoyed whatu steve bannon has brought to trumpist politics so far, all the destroy the administrative state stuff and we need a multi-polar white world led by russia and take it as a badge of honor if you're called a racist, all that bannon stuff, if you have enjoyed that over the last few years, you
will love what his priority is right now foror trump getting bk into the white house for a second term. the new plan, the new big idea we're getting from bannon and his whole wing of the trump movement o which includes jd vance, the big new idea we're getting for the trump second term is the, quote, abandonment of the dollar. he wants to end the american currency. he's working on, quote, the end of the dollar empire. well, that would be quite a business decision. who in the business world, who is making a business decision about this next election thinks that the smart business minded way ahead is to drop the dollar as the currency? as the world's default trading currency? doesn't that sound like an idea to you?
the idea of making a business decision about this election is honestly kind of a dumb one. we're not shareholders. we're not running a company.nn we're citizens and this is a country. but for people, and there are a lot of them, who say they're making a business decision about this election, what are they thinking? or is this all just stuff that they don't know? a very special guest joins us next. stay with us. us next stay with us swim with elephants? wait, can we afford a safari? great question. like everything, it takes a little planning. or, put the money towards a down-payment... ...on a ranch ...in montana ...with horses let's take a look at those scenarios. j.p. morgan wealth management has advisors in chase branches and tools, like wealth plan to keep you on track. when you're planning for it all... the answer is j.p. morgan wealth management. advil liqui-gels are faster and stronger than tylenol rapid release gels. ♪♪ also from advil, advil targeted relief, the only topical
with 4 powerful pain fighting ingredients that start working on contact and lasts up to 8 hours. protect against rsv with arexvy. arexvy is a vaccine used to prevent lower respiratory disease from rsv in people 60 years and older. arexvy does not protect everyone and is not for those with severe allergic reactions to its ingredients. those with weakened immune systems may have a lower response to the vaccine. the most common side effects are injection site pain, fatigue, muscle pain, headache and joint pain. arexvy is number one in rsv vaccine shots. rsv? make it arexvy.
why use 10 buckets of water when you can use 1 fire extinguisher. and to fight heartburn, why take 10 antacids throughout the day when you can take 1 prilosec. for easier heartburn relief, one beats ten. prilosec otc. one pill. 24 hours. zero heartburn. upset stomach iberogast indigestion iberogast bloating iberogast thanks to a unique combination of herbs, iberogast helps relieve six digestive symptoms
to help you feel better. six digestive symptoms. the power of nature. iberogast. what does a robot know... about love? the power of nature. it takes a human to translate that leap in our hearts. into something we can see and hold. etsy. - [narrator] life with ear ringing sounded like a constant train whistle i couldn't escape. then i started taking lipo flavonoid. with 60 years of clinical experience, it's the number one doctor recommended brand
for ear ringing. and now i'm finally free. take back control with lipo flavonoid.
you may know the billionaire businessman and investor mark cuban from the long running sort of iconic tvshow"shark tank" where he invested in people's business idea. you may know him as an owner of the dallas mavericks babble team. mark cuban is a self-made billionaire, a larger than life american character who kind of epitomizes what we like to think of when we think of achieving the american dream through business acumen. and so in 2015, when fellow very famous businessman donald trump rode down his escalator and into a presidential bid, mr. cuban initially said he was very excited. having a nonpolitician, a businessman in the race, was, quote, probably the best thing to happen to politics in a long, long time. he said he had 10 to 15 conversations with trump as a candidate during which he tried to give trump advice or talk about policy. he even said he would consider being trump's vice president. thank goodness he didn't given
how that worked out for the guy who did get the job. but then mr. cuban fairly quickly realized trump was very much not the best thing to happen to politics. and it's been a very long time since he said anything nice about trump and his political prospects. but mark cuban is a business guy full stop, and he's no fan of politicians in general. and that is why it is a big deal now that mark cuban has so loudly and enthusiastically endorsed kamala harris for president. he said it's not just because he thinks donald trump would be a disaster in a second term but he thinks harris would be a really good president, in particular, for the american economy. joining us now for the interview is investor, entrepreneur mark cuban. also the cofounder of the public benefit corporation cost plus drugs. mr. cuban, really nice to meet you. thank you so much for being here. >> thanks for having me on,rachel. call me mark. i don't like the mister stuff. >> you can call merachel. let me ask about my overall sort
of premise here. i am not a business person. i don't have a brain for business stuff. and i would be the first to admit it. that said, i have a lot of conversations with people who say they're making business based decisions about politics and i feel like that's been driving me more crazy this year than it does in most years. let me ask if i said anything i got the wrong way around? >> you nailed it. you took it line item by line item and laid it all out. there's really no good reason to vote for donald trump as the business candidate. you know, in doing business, whether you're a small company or a very large company, you want stability. you don't want to wake up one morning as the ceo of john deere and find out all of a sudden you have a 200% tariff. you don't want to be carrier air and find out that he's threatening you if you move employees. those are the types of decisions that take years to plan and put together. so stability is the number one rule for a big business. and for a smaller business, you
just want the opportunity. >> in terms of the targeting that he is talking about for a second term and what we saw in his first term when he picked out individual businesses or sometimes individual business leaders who he wanted to use the government to punish when he went after amazon and jeff bezos, when he went after saying he wanted to go after mark zuckerberg, when he did other things that were targeting businesses because what were perceived as political interest, i would have thought it would make him radioactive in the business world because business people are too smart to think they can always be on the right side of the calculations, that they won't ever be the one in the cross hairs once you have someone who uses the government that way to reward and punish enemies and his friends. >> you don't hear a whole lot of ceos other than elon musk coming out and supporting him for that very reason. you don't hear them condemning him because they're worried about his retribution or his
vengeance, but literally, there's been nobody that i know other than elon that has come out in support of him. >> you recently said in an interview that some business leaders who are supporting trump with the caveat of whats you just described in terms of high level leaders, not too many of them doing it, you said some business leaders who are supporting trump are doing it because they think they can manipulate him. can you explain what you mean by that? >> yeah, he's very transacle. for the right amount, you can guide policy. i think you saw that with crypto. you know, there's different types of crypto and let me say i'm a huge fan of crypto and its utility. i support bitcoin, et cetera, but there's a lot of large scale bitcoin owners who have made significance donations in an effort to manipulate his perception of crypto. to their benefit. and so i think that's the perfect example of him being transactional and could be manipulated.
>> what do you make of his crypto venture? i saw headlines about it when he first announced it. i saw the rollout was ridiculous, but the more i looked into it, i mean, here's one of my favorite details, this was reported in "the new york times." he met these guys including the ex-con and the pickup artist guy through a real istate billionaire guy he knows, and that guy's crypto savvy was such that he called a meme coin a me-me coin, and that's the guy with the expertise that he was tapping to set up his company. come on. >> it's all crazy. i mean, the only reason you sell cologne, you sell commemorative coins, you sell sneakers and put together this project is because you need the money. you have to. and that's the insanity of it all. people trying to look at him as a good business person when he literally can't run his own businesses. you don't hear stories about his overwhelming success in any
businesses -- you know, outside of real estate, and even those were questionable. i don't see how people really support him as a business person. >> investor and entrepreneur mark cuban, i really appreciate you doing this tonight. i know your time is really valuable. thanks for being here. thank you. >> thanks for having me on,rachel. >> we'll be right back. stay with us. , my guy! you're helping them with savings, right? (♪♪) i wish i had someone like evan when i started. somebody just got their first debit card! ice cream on you? ooo, tacos! i got you. wait hold on, don't you owe me money? what?! your money is a part of your community, so your bank should be too. like, chase!




so there are no mentions of assault rifles in the bible. i checked. but there is a ministry in pennsylvania that calls itself the rod of iron ministries. and in this case, the rod in the name of the group, they say is a kind of biblical euphemism specifically for not just guns but ar-15 assault rifles. this, for example, is a wedding ceremony recently performed by the rod of iron ministries and you can see they have got a golden ar-15 propped up on the alter there because they think of it as a religious item. the gospel of the rod of iron ministries is that assault rifles are divine instruments of god aused to carry out his will. they say the rod of iron mentioned in the book of revelation is the ar-15 so they all need them all the time, especially for religious purposes. for the past few years, the rod of iron ministries has held an aniest get together they call freedom festival, their most
recent one was held this weekend, and you'll be interested to know that it doubled as basically a political rally for a certain republican presidential candidate with a very surprise special guest turning up alongside mike flynn. and that story is next. corndogs! corndogs! corndogs! ♪♪ i need another corndog! oh, my leaffilter? i just scheduled an appointment online and the inspection was a breeze.
they explained everything. leaffilter's technology protects your gutters for good! now my home is protected. call 833 leaffilter or visit leaffilter.com whoa! how'd you get your teeth so white? you gotta use the right toothpaste! dr. c?! ♪♪ not all toothpastes whiten the same. crest 3d white removes 100% more stains for a noticeably whiter smile. new personal best. crest.
welcome to the rod of iron freedom festival folks. god bles you. may god save america, using
president trump and every single one of you. god bless you. maga 2024, let's go, baby. >> that is the leader of the rod of iron ministries holding his golden ar-15, and wearing, yes, your eyes do not deceive you, a crown made of bullets. also in attendance at the rod of iron crown made of bullets event this weekend in pennsylvania was naturally michael flynn, mike flynn, donald trump's first national security adviser, the one who was removed from the post and prosecuted after lying to the fbi about his secret contacts with the russian government. he spoke to this rod of iron ministries event this weekend for over an hour. he also took some questions from the audience or perhaps in this case, we should describe it as a proposal. >> is there any chance that should the election go with a positive result, you would get your rank reinstated and sit at
the head of the military tribunal to not only drain the swamp but imprison the swamp and on the few occasions, execute the swamp? >> big cheers from the crowd there. to recap, would you go back into the military, if trump wins, will you go back into the military so in uniform you can sit at the head of a military tribunal to drain the swamp and imprison the swamp and maybe execute the swamp? a big cheer for the executions. that's a hot one. what say you, general flynn? >> your sentiment is like a lot of people that i speak to around this country, but when people start thinking like that, all of us, all of us, folks, and when you hear these -- when you hear other people talking because you're going to hear a lot of people this weekend, you know, and i always say i speak like i never will be invited back.
okay. so you're going to hear all kinds of stuff. that's great, that's good. people need to feel that way, and all good and fine. but not me. i'm about winning. we have to win. and these people are already up to no good. so we have to win first. we win. and then k-bar the door. okay. believe me, the gates of hell, my hell, will be unleashed. >> my gates of hell will be unleashed. remember, he was just asked if he will get back into uniform under trump so he can lead military tribunals to start executing americans. and he says, once we're back in there, katie, bar the door. general mike flynn was not the only former trump official at the assault rifles and bullet crowns festival in pennsylvania. they also gave a speaking slot
to this guy. >> i said it 100 times, trump comes back, i come back. >> yeah. that guy's name is tom homan, during the trump administration, he was acting director of u.s. immigration and customs enforcement, better known as i.c.e. he's largely considered the architect of trump's policy to tear little kids away from their moms and dads at the border. when he says if trump comes back i come back, it's not just wishful thinking on his part. trump says publicly if he's elected to a second term, he will indeed bring tom homan back on board to effectively oversee his migration policy, the centerpiece of which is ordering the u.s. military to build camps capable of holding tens of millions of people and then using the military to go into american homes and communities and extract tens of millions of people to put in those camps and then deport them.
one of if not the defining policy positions of the trump campaign this time around, camps to hold millions of people and then deporting tens of millions of people from this country. that was in fact something that tom homan bragged about this weekend at the rod of iron ministries bullet crown freedom festival. >> i said it 100 times. trump comes back, i come back. and i will run the biggest deportation operation this country has ever seen. >> if you're wondering how the trump administration would go about this, how they would actually carry out the biggest deportation operation the country has ever seen, whether this is a real policy they're going to approach carefully and soberly, consider for a moment
the guy who trump says would be in charge of the camps, in charge of the deportations was a headliner at the assault rifles are god's will rally this weekend where their leader was wearing a crown of bullets and mike flynn was positively fielding questions about leading military tribunals andesh cushion squads for americans. that perhaps gives you a sense of how they're going to approach the detention and deportation of tens of millions of people if trump were to win a second term. if trump comes back, i come back. memory loss is, is not something that occurs overnight. i started noticing subtle lapses in memory. i want people to know that prevagen has worked for me. it's helped my memory. it's helped my cognitive qualities. give it a try. i want it to help you just like it has helped me. prevagen. at stores everywhere without a prescription. you've got a pepto predicament, ace. you overdid it on the loaded fries and now your gut is in the gutter.
undo it with pepto fast melts. so you can keep on rolling. [bowling pins knocked down] when you overdo it, undo it with pepto bismol. hey, scott. this stuff's perfect for fall, right? yep! it feeds your lawn now to strengthen roots all winter for a better lawn next spring. how do you know all of this? says it right there on the bag. yes, it does. download the my lawn app today for lawn care tips and customized plans. feed your lawn. feed it. ( ♪♪ ) asthma. it can make you miss out on those epic hikes with friends. step back out there with fasenra. fasenra is an add-on treatment for eosinophilic asthma that is taken once every 8 weeks. ( ♪♪ ) fasenra helps prevent asthma attacks. most patients did not have an attack in the first year. fasenra is proven to help you breathe better so you can get back to doing day-to-day activities. and fasenra helps lower the use of oral steroids. fasenra is not for sudden breathing problems or other eosinophilic conditions. allergic reactions may occur.
don't stop your asthma treatments without talking with your doctor. tell your doctor if your asthma worsens. headache and sore throat may occur. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection. get back to better breathing. get back to what you've missed. ask your doctor about fasenra, the only asthma treatment taken once every 8 weeks. if you can't afford your medication, astrazeneca may be able to help. "bring rings to beach wedding"? fedex presents: tall tales of true deliveries. ( ♪♪ ) (gasp, crowd cheering) just another day on the job. we did this for love. see what we can do for your business. fedex.
one last thing before we go tonight, by popular demand minute documentary from russia with lav will air this weekend on msnbc and if you missed it when it premiered or you want