point. >> david, a lot of people told trump, please don't announce before the georgia runoff. he looks like he's gonna do it anyway. when you look at these results tonight, it's, like i can't imagine that's good for the republicans in that georgia runoff. >> donald trump and trumpism performs uniquely poorly in state by georgia races. so -- for the party, right? and they do not want them. there is so warnock and the dems are gonna make it all about trump and warnock wins and a lock away. but i also think there's a lesson in here and i've stopped using the word trumpism for this reason, it somehow suggest that if the party drops trump, they've now whitewash if the party drops trump they've now whitewashed themselves. the power of donald trump and the party is because the party embraced him and took on his identity. >> they don't need him anymore. >> genuinely. >> "therachelmaddow"showstarts right now. good evening,rachel. >> chris, i was on the edge of
my seat during that interview with reuben gallego and it seems there was an answer but no answer. >> a lot going on. it was very fun for steve and i to do tap dancing. there's a real church state here with these calls. we don't know. they make the calls to independents. we just try to figure out and then we find out. >> it's actually worth i think pulling back that curtain a little bit so people understand it. they explain why they're doing things and making certain calls but they take no incoming calls. they don't take requests. we can watch the same information that comes in they can see and anticipate what they do but we don't know. it makes it more impressive.
>> thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. it's great to have you. >> i do want to tell you in just a few moments we're going to be joined live by democratic u.s. senator chuck schumer. when the country learned this weekend that the democrats would hold on to their senate seat in nevada this week, that katherine cortez masto would be reelected as a democratic senator, we learned democrats will numerically remain in control of the senate next year. chuck schumer is going to be joining us here live in just a moment. i have so many things i want to ask him about what is to happen next here. first, as chris and i were discussing, we got in new vote numbers from maricopa. those numbers turned out to be
decisive between katie hobbs and kari like. msnbc news projected that democrat katie hobbs is going to be the democratic governor in arizona. they lost the hotly contested, frustrate secretary of state race in arizona where the republicans candidate had all but said he wouldn't allow republican election results to be certified unless they showed republicans winning. the arizona attorney general race has not been called between chris mace and a abraham hamade.
the attorney general's race is still too close to call. with all that to understand and with anticipation of what else we might hear over the course of the night, no rest for the wicked, let's go back to steve kornacki at the big board. steve, we got the call. we know the top line result out of arizona. can you tell us anything based on what's still outstanding how narrow the margin is likely to be at the end of the day in this race. >> yeah. there's still some possibilities here that this could get closer. one variable here is how are the provisional ballots, subject to post-election verification. how are they going to break? we actually saw donald trump in arizona do fairly well with those back in 2020. there's another issue in maricopa county. that was by far the bulk of the vote that just came in that put
katie hobbs over the top in the governor's race. there's still a small share, a couple thousand that we're talking here. if you were following on election day, there were some issues at polling places throughout maricopa county. ballots were sort of -- voters were having some issues being able to cast ballot, they were placed in ballot box three. there are still a few thousand of those, election day votes, the election day voters are a more republican-friendly group generally speaking. there could be room there for republicans to have some success there. not in terms of the outcome of the governor's race. that looms large right here where the margin for the democrats is basically 4,200 votes, 4,195. the uncertainty i'm describing around how the provisionals will
break, about how those remaining same-day votes will break in maricopa county, there is sort of a scattering of votes in these various counties around the state, the types of votes in these counties around the state, how that will break i think is what will determine this attorney general's race where hamadeh is still in it, he's in the race still. it's the difference between being 4,000 behind and being 20,000 and change behind. even with all those uncertainty, you can't see a way for lake to overcome that deficit. her campaign banked so much on that idea that that vote that just came out in maricopa county, the mail-in ballots delivered on election day, it's a huge, huge chunk of the vote in maricopa. almost 300,000 of the votes were cast that way. they were banked on the idea that was going to be heavily republican, consistently like
60% republican. she had one of her better updates with it but she only hit 57%. she wasn't hitting her numbers there with that vote. folks on the senate side, the masters folks with saying that was going to lift blake masters in the senate race. so republicans with the late votes out of maricopa county have been making up ground and doing well just in the raw numbers but not enough to overcome the advantage that democrats had built in at least three of these races. but again, that attorney general's race is the question mark. and i should add, too, the other piece of this is arizona is crucial for the battle for the control of the house of representatives where republicans still don't have those 218 seats locked up. there are two. you see them in gray here, two outstanding districts in arizona. democrats, if they want to have a path to 218, these are two very important districts. this is first district republican dave schweiker, that last update was good for him. his lead was under a thousand.
now it sits over 3,000 with that update. so he was in a better position coming in than kari lake was. republicans are feeling better about their standing in the first district of arizona and in the 6th district, too. democrats are now gunning for a statewide sweep in arizona. it's very possible they could go 4 for 4 in those statewide offices. the other news out of arizona concerns control for the house. in two districts that the democrats really if they want to stitch together a 218 scenario, it may be slipping away from them at the same time. >> steve, in terms of the overall status of the house, again, this is not an exact science but in terms of the remaining house races around the country that are still undecided, do you expect we'll have enough results, that we'll have races potentially called
tonight in any of those races? i'm thinking about whether or not we're going to be looking a the a projection of house control by one of the two parties sometime soon. >> yeah. what you can see -- here's what you're looking at. red are the republican one, blue the democratic one, yellow are the uncalled. there are right now 212 republican seats in the news house. there will be at least 206 democratic seats. there are 17 that we have yet to call, that nbc has yet to call. so republicans would need six from this list. they need to pick up -- they need six seats here and get to 218. arizona won, they got very good news out of arizona one and arizona six. republicans today out of both districts got numbers they were looking for. what else on this list is looking like it's trending in their direction?
there are a few. new york 22, for instance. almost all the vote is in. republicans are sitting in the lead of over 4,000 votes, this is the syracuse area. just as i say it's hard to see, we're saying it was hard to see the math for kari lake, it gets hard to see the math for the democrats in place like this. the 45th district of california, a new vote update within the last hour, michelle steele, her lead expanded. the 27th district here, mike garcia, the republican leading by nearly ten points. kristy smith all but conceded this race yesterday. ken calvert's lead has expanded by 1,400 votes or so this evening. new york is one, california 45 is two, california 27 is three, california 41 is four, arizona 1
could be five, arizona 6 could be -- i could have just given you the six seats there that would get the republicans to 218. if the republicans go 6 for 6 in the seats i just showed you and they're feeling good about their standing in all of them right now, that's 218. so the democrats need to top them, need to win one of those six i just showed you and then democrats would need more breaks because you would look at the 22nd district of california. this has been extremely slow to count here. but the democratic incumbent, this is one democrats would need to pick up. we got the race out in colorado. but boebert does have the lead right now. getting all of those races actually called, especially been the pace of the vote count in
california may be a different story, may take a little bit more time because you take a look at the race like the 41st in california, it's 5,400 votes, you still have a third of the votes to come in. there's still a little bit of uncertainty perhaps in some of these races. >> patience, grasshopper, that is what we are learning here. feel free to interrupt at any time if you get something determinative. >> you got it. >> nbc news has just projected just within the last half hour that democrat katie hobbs has defeated trump-endorsed republican kari lake in the arizona governor's race. after a call like that, what happens next in arizona ought to be simple and straight forward. we know how these are supposed to work. the loser concedes defeat, the state certifies the election, we all agree we'll shake hands and battle it out again in the next election. in arizona it is not as clear this year that that is what is
going to happen. the losing republican candidate for arizona secretary, mark finchem posted "we are not conceding and are fighting." if you're wondering what exactly he's fighting since his projected lost three days ago, he's been posting conspiracy theories on social media about george soros and also crypto currency. i don't know. the losing republican u.s. senate candidate in arizona, blake masters, has also so far refused to concede. on friday he told fox news that maricopa county should stop its vote count and start all over from scratch. he has since said that he will concede if he loses -- he actually lost. he said he will concede if he loses after every legal vote is counted. not to be outdone, former republican president donald trump has been calling for not just a recount in maricopa, he's calling for a completely new
election in arizona. didn't work out the way he wanted it to so he wants the election to be redone. his candidates lost. therefore, it must have been stolen or at least we should just do it again anyway. his former adviser, steve bannon, says somehow the results in arizona should not be certified. he said on his podcast that the certification in arizona should somehow be blocked. i don't know how he intends to do that, but it's an open question what kari lake is going to do now that nbc news has projected she's lost the race for governor. both she and the republican for the race for attorney general, they have both been alleging voter suppression in arizona. kari lake called the election botched. she says she doesn't know how
you can certify an election so clearly and botched and she knows that people wouldn't vote for her opponent. >> and there were armed protesters turning up after the vote counting center after the 2020 election. that is now the site of some renewed protests. the protests are certainly smaller than two years ago. that could also be because of the heavy security barrier and fences and sheriff deputies that officials felt the need to put there this year. joining us from arizona is yvonne sanchez. i appreciate you being here. >> thanks for having me. >> first of all, let me ask you if anything i've described about the situation in arizona is the wrong way around or if i said anything wrong and also let me just ask you to update us based on your reporting in terms of
how people are responding to the results there. >> sure. i think you've conveyed everything exactly how it has played out. we are all very closely watching kari lake to see how she is going to maneuver her way through this. her entire campaign for the past year plus has been premised on the notion that an election was stolen from former president donald trump. she seems to be hearing from various voices, including the former president, about what her next move should be. she clearly thinks that this election was botched. she's citing -- officials have said no one was disenfranchised.
she's trying to figure out is she going to go all in on the stop the steal notion? is she going to go all in on do not certify? is she going to at some pointing a -- at some point acknowledge that she lost? that's an open question. she's been hold up in the past week with various republican operatives, some of whom are trying to press her to concede, to walk away and to continue to have a place in the republican party, not just here in arizona but beyond. but there is another crowd that seems to be advocating for her to go a little tougher, perhaps taking a play out of trump's playbook post 2020. >> in terms of the atmosphere in arizona, i think that when
you're anticipating potentially anti-small d democratics, gaming out the likely eventualities, is how many democratic opportunities there are for people who feel aggrieved to have their concerns addressed within the system. to that end if kari lake and we saw people like steve bannon today start problematizing the elections, is there any way to block or challenge the election or is there any way that kari lake might be granted a recount given the closeness of the vote? >> that would have to go all the way up through the court system. we're going to see what this looks like perhaps.
the board of supervisors has said repeatedly over the past several months, anticipating that there could be problems like this that they would certify this election. this is a board that came under intense scrutiny in 2020 after donald trump lost. kelly ward, the state republican chair, rudy giuliani, others were trying to get these supervisors to not fulfill their duty to certify the election. this board has said we are going to do our jobs. we are not going to be intimidated out of doing our jobs. so we'll see what the messaging ends up looking like with any sort of legal maneuvers could develop over the coming days from lake's camp, but as far as the board of supervisors is concerned, they're going to be certifying the results. >> "washington post" reporter covering arizona issues joining
us tonight upon the big news that the democratic candidate has been projected the winner tonight in the senate rate. thank you for your time. i really appreciate it. >> i know we are on day six of this election now but it is important to know that there's a whole bunch of races that are still nail biters, nail biters will significant political impact. take, for instance, the race for the state house seat representing the district in bucks county, pennsylvania. i know you've been laser focused on it at home. that race is separated by 114 votes. i'll tell you why it has potentially national implications. right now republicans have 100 seats in the pennsylvania state legislature. republicans have 100 seats. democrats have 100 seats in the pennsylvania statehouse. it is 100-100 in pennsylvania right now. pennsylvania democrats have said that they are going to reclaim the pennsylvania house, which i think would be the first time in more than a decade that they
have been in control there, but there are three races left there to be called. one of them will be settled by a special election because the democrat who won that seat handily last week had actually died before election died. that seat will likely go democratic again and there's that bucks county race that's separated by 114 votes. and then there's a montgomery county pennsylvania race that is separated by literally 14 votes. control might change hands for the first time in 12 years. it's going to come down to one race that's about a hundred votes and one race that's about a dozen. and the mayoral race is still up in the air. the wisconsin secretary of state race is still up in the air.
alaska is a rank choice state so that race is also still a live wire until the rice choice system gets its way to the end. and then of course there's control of the u.s. house of representatives in washington. as steve was just saying, there are 17 races left that could shift the partisan control of the house. we'll have more on that to come tonight. first we'll speak to the man who knows he's going to be the majority leader of the united states senate again. democratic leader chuck schumer joins us live here next. stay with us. r joins us live here next. stay with us you want what's yours. that's why tide loads of hope is expanding to provide clean clothes to more people in crisis. with every purchase of tide hygienic clean you can help too.
everyone remembers the moment they heard... “you have cancer.” how their world stopped and when they found a way to face it. for some, this is where their keytruda story begins. keytruda - a breakthrough immunotherapy that may treat certain cancers. one of those cancers is advanced nonsquamous, non-small cell lung cancer where keytruda is approved to be used with certain chemotherapies as your first treatment if you do not have an abnormal “egfr” or “alk” gene. keytruda helps your immune system fight cancer but can also cause your immune system to attack healthy parts of your body. this can happen during or after treatment and may be severe and lead to death. see your doctor right away if you have cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, diarrhea, severe stomach pain or tenderness, severe nausea or vomiting, headache, light sensitivity, eye problems,
irregular heartbeat, extreme tiredness, constipation, dizziness or fainting, changes in appetite, thirst, or urine, confusion or memory problems, muscle pain or weakness, fever, rash, itching, or flushing. these are not all the possible side effects. tell your doctor about all your medical conditions, including immune system problems, or if you've had an organ transplant, had or plan to have a stem cell transplant, or have had radiation to your chest area or a nervous system condition. today, keytruda is fda-approved to treat 16 types of advanced cancer. and is being studied in hundreds of clinical trials exploring ways to treat even more types of cancer. it's tru. keytruda from merck. see the different types of cancer keytruda is approved to treat at keytruda.com, and ask your doctor if keytruda can be part of your story. my asthma felt anything but normal. ♪ ♪ it was time for a nunormal with nucala. nucala is a once-monthly add-on treatment for severe eosinophilic asthma that can mean less oral steroids. not for sudden breathing problems. allergic reactions can occur. get help right away for swelling of face, mouth, tongue, or trouble breathing.
infections that can cause shingles have occurred. don't stop steroids unless told by your doctor. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection. may cause headache, injection site reactions, back pain, and fatigue. ask your asthma specialist about a nunormal with nucala. (snorting) if you struggle with cpap... (groan) (growling) (chuckle) ...you should check out inspire. no mask. no hose. just sleep. (beeping) learn more and view important safety information at inspiresleep.com. these days, learn more and view important safety information our households depend on the internet more and more. families grow, houses get smarter, and our demands on the internet increase. that's why we just boosted speeds for over 20 million xfinity customers, on us. so you get more of the speed you need for day and night streaming. more speed you need when you're work from homeing. and more speed you need as your family keeps growing. check in on your current speed through the xfinity app today.

the republican party has a choice. they can continue to let the maga hard right lead them. that is a path to failure. or the group who is not maga can work with us on important issues to benefit the american people. i say to the republican senators and to leader mcconnell we are willing to work with you to get things done to the american people. it's not going to be everything your party wants for sure. it's not even going to be everything we want but it will be a lot done and we're not going to forsake our principles for it but we will get it done. >> that was senator chuck schumer speaking yesterday. the first time senator schumer learned that his party had won the senate and he would be majority leader of the u.s. senate was on january 6, 2021,
while the attack on the u.s. capitol was under way. january 5th, 2021 was the date of the runoff in georgia. it was while the capitol was under siege that the results came in showing the democratic candidates had won those georgia runoffs and the democrats had won control of the senate and chuck schumer would take over as the man in charge. that was the circumstance of how he learned last time. this time much better vibe. this time he learned it at a chinese restaurant while he was out to dinner with his wife on saturday night. on saturday with the win of democratic senator, senator schumer learned over fortune cookies, that against all odds, against history, the democrats would hold the senate and he would stay leader. with senator cortez masters' win the night before, senator schumer also now maintains his perfect record of having every one of thinks democratic u.s.
senators reelected since he has been their majority leader. none of them have been ousted. the georgia run-off election this year will determine the size of senator schumer's majority but it will be his majority either way. joining us now live is senator chuck schumer. senator, thank you so much for making time to be here tonight, sir. congratulations. >> it was good at that restaurant. people got on their emails that we had won and the whole restaurant broke out in cheers. >> i hope you left a big tip. >> thank you. i'm a big tipper. >> sir, let me get your response tonight to this new news that we just had within the last half an hour or so, 45 minutes out of arizona. nbc news is projecting that the democratic candidate katie hobbs has defeated republican kari lake in that state. >> it's first great news. kari lake was a very dangerous
person. she's very smooth talking but very, very dangerous and had hard right views. and if she is defeated in a state like arizona, which is a purple state, it should send another message, another shock wave through the republican party that when you embrace this republican party that when you embrace that maga republican party, you lose. people who wanted to undo this election, who denied this election all lost. i hope this is a lesson to the mainstream republicans. we don't agree with the mainstream republicans on so many different things. i hope it's a lesson to them if they embrace this marx republican trumpism, they're going to lose. the american people -- this is one great thing,rachel. a lot of people doubted the fidelity of democracy. with good reason. we saw the election deniers.
when you deny election, you deny democracy. we saw let's against innocent poll workers. and democracies may be quiet but they run deep. moderates and even conservatives said this maga republican party is against everything that democracy is all about, i can't vote for them. and i predicted this in august. i said there was going to be 10 to 15% of the electorate who normally might vote republican who is going to not vote for them because of this embrace of maga. my plea is the non-republicans in the senate work with us. we will be able to compromise. the second reason we won is we got real things done. we took on bill oil and got the
biggest climate bill ever done. we took on pharma and passed drug legislation. we took on the nra. people saw us fighting for people they cared about and succeeding and republicans with the maga extreme. and you put those together with the decent, honorable and effective people, that clinched the election for us. this will happen again if the republicans continue to embrace maga so the clarion call to the non-maga republicans, work with us. people say they won't. of the six major bills we passed in june, july, august, five were part of them. the big one, ira was not. things like the gun bill, the chips bill which brought american jobs back here and said
we're not going to let china take over -- or any other country take over our chip industry. the bill that said the veteran administration had to deal with those veterans exposed to the burn pits. i'm hopeful that they're going to do that. they're going to say that path doesn't work. we don't need every republican. we just need a group that we can work with and we're willing to meet them part of the way. not going to give up our principles but meet them part of the way to get more things down for the american people. >> i understand that you today filed cloture on a bill to codify marriage equality, to make it federal law that same-sex couples have the rate right to marry. clearly you worried that the majority on the supreme court is basically coming for people's marriages and take away that right.
what is your expectation on moving cloture on that today? are you expecting republicans to join democrats in supporting this? >> our two lead republicans on this, i asked two people to be our leaders, tammy baldwin and kirsten sinema. when it first came in the house 30 republicans voted for marriage equality, much to our surprise and delight, put it right on the floor, people said. sinema and baldwin said we're not going to get the votes if you do it now. but we're quite certain if you do it after the election, we will get it done. my job is to get things done, get things done. i know people said just make it an issue,showwhere the republicans are, but the american people and particularly lgbtq-plus people want the right to marry. this is personal to me, i have a daughter who has a beautiful wife and they're expecting a
baby. isn't that great? people want us to get things done. want us to get things done. i'm optimistic. based on what i know and our two lead senators know, they will get the votes to get this done. it will say to that supreme court just like we want to say get your hands off women's bodies, figuratively of course, we want to say let people marry who they love period. >> your majority will either be 50-50 with vice president harris as a tie-breaker or it will be 51-49 depending on what happens with senator warnock's runoff election on december 6th. can you explain to me and our audience what the practical difference is with how the senate runs. you've been at 50-50 for years. it required a power sharing agreement with the republicans. how different would your life be if it was 51-49 instead of
50-50? >> it's better. any time a judge or nominee to the administration, we've had a lot of good, progressive nominees gets a vote out of committee that's 10-10 that's tied, it delays things for a week. you have to go to the floor, get kamala harris there and do what's called a notion to discharge out of committee. if we have 51, there will be no more motions to discharge. it will be appointees and judges will get appointed much more quickly. we've set the record as of today, 83 new judges, two-thirds women, half people of color and progressive judges, not just partners in law firms and prosecutors, but legal aide attorneys and immigration lawyers and consumer advocates, things like that. so that will make that a lot easier. the second thing it does is you can get different bills out of committee much more quickly. third, we can have subpoena
power. with 50-50, you can't really get subpoena power. it means it's a lot easier to get things done. when you have 50 senator and any one senator can say i'm not getting this, this or this. when it's 51, it harder to do. you put all that together and plus that extra seat in 2024 keeps the majority. i'm trying to think ahead. and senator warnock has been a great person, been a great senator for georgia. service has been his motto as a minister. he took the lead in getting insulin in medicare only to cost $35 instead of $600, $700. and in georgia farmers will get help. they've been discriminated against in the past. he expanded the aca so more people got health care and it have cheaper.
issues that really matter to people warnock has already produced. if i was a georgian, i would say this guy produces for me. it's not a lot of rhetoric, it serious stuff. >> one last question for you. the point you made about how any one senator when it's 50-50 can stand up and decide they can throw a wrench in the works. this is a little bit delicate to say, but we all know that it was really senator sinema who you just mentioned a moment ago for her leadership on the marriage equality bill and also senator manchin in west virginia who were the ones who were kind of throwing the wrench in the works more often than anybody else. are you 100% sure that neither of them was considering switching to the republican party so they could be the star once again so they could monkey wrench this whole process >> well, they've had very
difficult positions. i've disagreed with them rather strongly in many ways but they've kept being democrats. it would have been easy for them to do it in the past. they have strong beliefs, different ways. senator sinema is passionate on lgbtq rights. senator sinema wouldn't find much of a home there. you know, i don't -- i think they differ from us in many ways but i don't think either of them would be comfortable with the republican party. >> senate majority leader chuck schumer, who i should mention was himself just re-elected and who also is about to start another term as majority leader in the united states senate. sir, it's an honor to have you with us tonight. >> it's an honor to be with you,rachel. thank you. >> we have much more ahead. stay with us. much more ahead stay with us
♪wow, uh-huh♪ now she's got a whole team to help her get the most out of her plan. ♪wow, uh-huh♪ with coverage that's better than ever for dental... ...vision... ...prescription drugs and more. advantage: me! can't wait 'til i turn 65! aarp medicare advantage plans, only from unitedhealthcare. take advantage now at uhc.com/medicare ♪ ♪ this... is a glimpse into the no-too-distant future of lincoln. ♪ ♪ it's what sanctuary could look like... feel like... sound like... even smell like. more on that soon. ♪ ♪ the best part? the prequel is pretty sweet too. ♪ ♪ your brain is an amazing thing. but as you get older, it naturally begins to change,
causing a lack of sharpness, or even trouble with recall. thankfully, the breakthrough in prevagen helps your brain and actually improves memory. the secret is an ingredient originally discovered... in jellyfish. in clinical trials, prevagen has been shown to improve short-term memory. prevagen. healthier brain. better life. did you know some of your detergent's fragrance disappears in the dryer? downy in-wash scent boosters survive the washer & dryer
for freshness that lasts 6 times longer than detergent alone. release freshness with every touch... with downy in-wash scent boosters.

this did look like trouble at the time. this was the headline. "comey and mccabe who infuriated trump both faced intensive i.r.s. audits." michael schmidt testified that somehow two of the people donald trump hated most got picked supposedly at random for an
audit that was so specific that it was like an autopsy after death. john kelly now tells the the "new york times" that, yes, those audit were instigated because trump asked for them. he wanted investigations of his foes. john kelly saying "i would say it's inappropriate, it's illegal and the irs knows what it's doing and it's no the a good idea." kelly responded, yeah, but they're writing bad things about me. for the record, the former president is denying these allegations from john kelly. a spokesperson for the former president called john kelly today a psycho. that's what the spokesperson said, he's a psycho. why did you pick a psycho to be your longest serving chief of
staff? but this is a big deal and a potentially criminally big deal for anybody at the irs who might have gone along with this kind of improper pressure and also for donald trump if he in fact asked for this sort of thing to be done. it is a federal crime for anyone, including the president, to request even indirectly an audit of anyone. it's against the law to abuse the power of the irs in that way. if trump asked for it, it's illegal. if trump asked for it and the irs then did it, it's illegal on a couple of different levels. when this story first emerged this summer, it appeared likely that the treasury department would investigate the issue. we're told tonight that a report from that inspector general investigation is expected quite soon. if we get anything definite, we will let you know. for you can add this new reporting to the pile of legal worries that the former president has a raid against him right now. just today he defied a lawful
subpoena to testify to the january 6th investigation in congress. he today remains in legal jeopardy in the state of georgia where a grand jury continues to investigate the effort to overturn the 2020 election results in that state. georgia governor brian kemp is reportedly testifying in that state grand jury criminal investigation tomorrow morning. trump also remains in legal jeopardy over the classified documents he's alleged to have taken when he left the white house. plus, his company is actively on trial right now in new york on criminal charges of fraud. plus the new york attorney general is continuing a civil suit against that company for alleged fraud. and so of course in that propitious environment, donald j. trump decided that tomorrow is the perfect day for him to announce that he's running again for president. since everything else is going his way anyway and people are just clamoring for his return, nobody has ever declared a run
for president not just under a cloud but enveloped in a suffocating fog of scandal with legal jeopardy still unfolding across multiple states and jurisdictions. nobody has ever announced a run for the presidency under those circumstances but for whatever reason, that is apparently going to change tomorrow. congratulations to us. presidential history about to be made on our watch in the worst possible way. watch this space. hmmm. tryna catch me ridin' ...thirty. ♪ they see me rollin' they hatin' ♪ ♪ patrollin' and tryna catch me ridin' thirty ♪ ♪ tryna catch me ridin' thirty ♪ ♪ tryna catch me ridin' thirty ♪ ♪ tryna catch me ridin' thirty ♪ ♪ tryna catch me ridin' thirty ♪ ♪ my music's so loud i'm swangin' ♪ the carmax 30-day money back guarantee. that's car buying reimagined. only from carmax. ♪ ridin' thirty ♪ (fisher investments) it's easy to think that all money managers
are pretty much the same, only from carmax. but at fisher investments we're clearly different. (other money manager) different how? you sell high commission investment products, right? (fisher investments) nope. fisher avoids them. (other money manager) well, you must earn commissions on trades. (fisher investments) never at fisher. (other money manager) ok, then you probably sneak in some hidden and layered fees. (fisher investments) no. we structure our fees so we do better when our clients do better. that might be why most of our clients come from other money managers. at fisher investments, we're clearly different.



we expect that tomorrow the republicans in the house of representatives are going to hold their internal leadership elections. senator mccarthy is the top republican in the house. he plans to stay leader, to be leader of something. he may still be minority leader, he may be speaker if they get control. right now according to nbc's projection, republicans could get, say, 219 seats, which would give them a very, very, very tiny majority. i should tell you that projection has a plus or -- excuse me, it's 220 seats is the projection right now. it has a margin of error of plus or minus four seats. even if they do get control, it's going to be a very, very, very slim majority. we've seen a few tiny house
majors. "the washington post" did a good reminder of when we have had wafer thin majority. one was around 9/11 but there's other cases where partisan gridlock being what held the day and that can be a very consequential thing, too. in the spring and summer of 1932, we've talked about this a few other times on theshow, tens of thousands of u.s. veterans, world war i veterans, marched down pennsylvania avenue and they set up camp outside the u.s. capitol in washington. of course it was the great depression. the veterans came to d.c. to demand bonuses that they were do. the government promised them bonuses for active service so they came to washington to get
their money. it ended horribly. when the veterans refused to leave, president hoover sicked the military on them to throw the veterans out bodily. now, how did it get to that point, to that act of desperation by the veterans and that monstrous decision by whoever to sic the military on them? republicans at the time were opposed to paying the bonuses. they had a one-seat majority in the senate. the house had a democratic majority but it was a 219-212 majority in the house. too small of a majority for the democrats to be able to get things there either. that's the sort of things that can happen with a very, very slim majority in congress, particularly if you've got a slim majority in both houses. unless you've got a major world event that unites political enemies, partisanship can very easily block even very important stuff when majorities are that
thin in washington. now, there's been a lot of discuss about what it would take for republicans to be able to pass legislation in a very narrow majority in the house. i think in real politic today in 2022 looking at the house republicans and what they want to do, i don't think anybody expects them to actually have real legislation that they want and expect to pass. even if they did have goals for legislation, they've been quiet about them thus far. they didn't run on those goals. they're not going to want to pass anything that the democratic senate would vote for anyway, let alone what would be signed into law by joe biden. what i think that means for a wafer-thin majority is that we'll see them pass nothing in terms of legislation. the consequence of having even a one-seat majority is they will control the committees and they will therefore control subpoena
power and they will be able to turn themselves into an investigation machine where they can do anything that joe biden has done, fought, or gestured at in his entire life. that's going to be the consequence of the house going to the republicans, if that's how it goes. even a one-seat majority is what they need to be able to control the committees, launch the investigations and honestly that's all they want anyway. watch this space. way. watch this space trying to control my asthma felt anything but normal.
♪ ♪ enough was enough. i talked to an asthma specialist and found out my severe asthma is driven by eosinophils, a type of asthma nucala can help control. now, fewer asthma attacks and less oral steroids that's my nunormal with nucala. nucala is a once-monthly add-on injection for severe eosinophilic asthma. nucala is not for sudden breathing problems. allergic reactions can occur. get help right away for swelling of face, mouth, tongue, or trouble breathing. infections that can cause shingles have occurred. don't stop steroids unless told by your doctor. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection. may cause headache, injection site reactions, back pain, and fatigue. talk to your asthma specialist to see if once-monthly nucala may be right for you. and learn about savings at nucala.com there's more to your life than asthma. find your nunormal with nucala. people remember ads there's more to your life with young people having a good time.
so to help you remember that liberty mutual customizes your home insurance, here's a pool party. ♪ good times. insurance! ♪ only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ dupixent helps you du more with less asthma. and can help you breathe better in as little as 2 weeks. dupixent is an add-on treatment for specific types of moderate-to-severe asthma that's not for sudden breathing problems. dupixent can cause allergic reactions that can be severe. get help right away if you have rash, chest pain, worsening shortness of breath, tingling or numbness in your limbs. tell your doctor about new or worsening joint aches and pain, or a parasitic infection. don't change or stop asthma medicines, including steroids, without talking to your doctor. ask your specialist about dupixent. did you know if you turn to cold with tide you can save up to $150 a year on your energy bill? how? the lower the temp, the lower your bill. tide cleans great in cold and saves money? i am so in. save $150 when you turn to cold with tide.
