happens in the homestretch of a campaign. join us next week at 1:30 eastern. visit msnbc.com/insiders-2024 or scan the qr code on the screen to buy tickets today. that does it for me tonight. therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. hi,rachel.
15 days to go. >> i know. i know. i gotta say, the insiders event sounds very cool. i have never been an insider at anything at all other than therachelmaddowshowand my own family. so -- >> it's quite an insiders group. i think people watching think you're very much an insider telling them all of the things every time you have ashow. >> inside my own head, that's pretty much it. i'm blessed to have colleagues such as yourselves and it's going to be excellent. >> and thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. really happy to have you here. we are two weeks out from election day. two weeks from tomorrow. well over 10 million americans have already cast their ballots. myself included. it feels great to have voted. i highly recommend it. no feeling quite like it. but now, we are getting close to the point where we are out of time for anything but voting. whatever you want to be able to say you did in this year's election, whatever you want to
be able to brag about some day in the future, whatever you want to say you're proud you did when your country needed you, what you want your answer to be when somebody some day asks you what you did in 2024 when you were alive and american and fully aware that this was the highest stakes american election since 1940 and 1860. whatever you want to be able to brag about in terms of your contribution to this moment in american history, your contribution to this election, this election in which we are be asked to choose not just between one candidate and another, we're asked to choose between one system of government and another. whatever you want your family lore about you to be, for future generations of your family, when your family in future holidays, right, future family reunions, family get-togethers when
members of your family talk about you and what you did in the election that decided whether or not america was going to switch to a strongman authoritarian state instead of the system we were born to and grew up in, whatever you are going to do, it's what you're going to do now. and in these next two weeks. history is calling. so what are you going to do? whether it's calling voters in swing states, volunteering to knock on doors, volunteering to drive people to the polls, showing up at the local campaign office so your candidate or cause and offering to do whatever needs doing at this late date, just on your own, calling or texting everyone in your contact list. in your phone. asking everyone you know if they are registered to vote, if they need help getting to a polling place to cast that ballot and can you please help them. whatever you want your bragging rights to be about doing your part. this is the last two weeks to do
any of it. voting is the bare minimum. you don't get to brag about that. what else are you going to do on top of voting to help bring about the outcome that you want in this election? the answer to that question is whatever you sign up to do tonight and tomorrow. because we are otherwise out of time. watching tv doesn't count. worrying about polls doesn't count. scrolling through your phone and doing nothing other than absorbing information does not count. it's time to actually do something and really it's now or never. one of the things that strong man leaders do when they do get control of a country is they shut down independent media. they make it a crime or make it otherwise impossible for anybody to report or say or broadcast anything that is independent of the strong man or that is critical of the strong man. and that of course is not how
the american system of government works, with our robust first amendment and freedom of the press protections, that's not at all how we are set up as a government and as a country. but again, what's on the table from republicans in this election is scrapping our system of government and instead doing it the strong man way instead. >> you say cbs should lose its license, why? >> sure. i have never seen anything like it. >> the head of the fcc says we would never yank a license. >> really? >> because a politician didn't like it. >> this isn't politician. this isn't -- wait a minute, now, what we're doing is we're going to subpoena their records. 60 minutes, no, i think "60 minutes" i think it should be taken off the air, frankly. >> frankly. i think it should be taken off the air. we're going to subpoena the records of this news organization. and we're going to take them off the air. this comes in the wake of that
same candidate, donald trump, saying that abc news should also have its broadcast license revoked. and it comes in the wake of that same candidate saying that this network, msnbc, and nbc news should have its broadcast license revoked. and it comes on the heels of him saying that the head of facebook should be put in prison, and it comes on the heels of him saying just you wait. just you wait to see what he's going to do to "the new york times." wait until you see what i'm going to do to them. this is not normal american stuff. this isn't american at all. this is strong man authoritarian form of government stuff, which our constitution protects us from explicitly. but he wants to get rid of all that, and he's saying if you vote for him, he will get rid of all that. tonight, i'm really honored to say that we're going to be joined here in studio by the wife, the widow of alexei
navalny. aleei navalny, somebody we have covered a lot here on this program. after alexei navalny was locked up and then killed by vladimir putin's government in russia, his wife yulia has stepped up, following her husband's death to herself lead the opposition to that country's strongman leader, to that country's dictator. she says she will defeat vladimir putin. she will step into her husband's shoes and lead the russian opposition against that dictatorship. no small feat in a country where every single person known to be in opposition to putin has been killed or imprisoned or exiled. her husband was killed inpub. now putin has put out a warrant for her arrest as well, but she is here with us tonight. we're going to speak with yulia navalny tonight about the challenge of standing in opposition and leading opposition efforts in a country where the independent media has been eliminated.
what trump is proposing to do here in america to the media is what putin of course has already done in russia. and russia, it is state controlled media only. and that's the case everywhere. you've got an authoritarian in charge. that's the case everywhere you have a dictatorship, the case everywhere in most cases you have a monarchy. any place you have authoritarian leadership. in saudi arabia, the state controlled media there includes al arabiya tv. you have a handy reminder of the fact it's state controlled media if you watch any of their clips online. trump loves saudi arabia, right? one of the many underreported things in the presidential campaign this year, i think, was that in the midst of our presidential campaign, just this summer, trump signed a deal to build trump tower saudi arabia in saudi arabia. that is a huge real estate deal, that is the saudi government
doling out a huge financial favor to trump while he is in the middle of his presidential campaign. they are expecting presumably that if he does get back into the white house, that huge personal financial favor they just did him will still be fresh in himind when it comes to making american policy, americans government policy toward saudi arabia. the saudi royal family, you will recall, also stuffed $2 billion, billion with a "b", $2 billion into the pockets of trump's son-in-law, jared kushner, as soon as he left the white house. "the new york times" recently reporting that the saudis have seen precisely zero return on that supposed investment in jared kushner. he's just kept all the money and skimmed out over $100 million in fees for himself while returning nothing to them, at least so far. but presumably, that's because they're not expecting to be paid back by him. they're expecting to be paid back by the white house, by the
american people. the saudis don't seem to be all that eager to get any of that money back from old jared because they know they'll get it back another way. from us. from policy at our expense to pay back the people who have paid him. so the trump relationship with saudi arabia is very well oiled. honestly, if you wanted to create like a kindergarten level textbook, one of those books where the pages are cards, card stock, if you wanted to create a kindergarten level textbook to explain to a kindergartner what corruption is, this is how you might spell it out. imagine your friend is running for president. somebody gives your friend a huge sweet business deal while he's running for president, and that same someone then gives your friend's family billions of dollars while he's running for president. c is for corruption. your friend is corrupt. and then if it was like, you
know, a good children's book, it would say, but don't worry, this could never happen in the united states of america. we would have to update that textbook. but anyway, today, al arabiya, saudi state controlled media, hosted a new interview with donald trump. and this new interview with donald trump, it was just published today, it got basically a zero pickup in the united states, which is kind of amazing. a presidential candidate interview gets zero pickup two weeks before election day. but i think the reason this interview didn't get any pickup might be because of the headline that saudi state controlled al arabiya slapped on the video when they posted it. look at the headline they put on this. quote, trump says middle east peace possible if elected. oh, yes. that's what we're all expecting, right? elect donald trump, watts going to happen? well, for starters, you'll get
peace in the middle east. it's evaded the geniuses of many generations, but that six dimensional chess player will be able to sort it out. yeah. trump will bring about peace in the middle east if he's elected. you'll be surprised to learn that was not the actual newsworthy takeaway from that interview with saudi state controlled media. what is the actual newsworthy takeaway from that interview is that in that interview, trump just flat out said that there aren't hostages being held by hamas. he says they're all dead. imagine if you're the family member of one of these hostages who has been held for a year now by hamas. and a presidential candidate in the united states comes out and says, yeah, well, they're pretty much all dead. most of them are dead, oh, well. that is what he said today. that is what he said. >> now, you have hostages. but many of them have been killed.
and i'm sure many of them are dead. i think even early on, i think a lot of those hostages were dead. i think they were dead. >> imagine the cruelty of that. if you're the family of a hostage in gaza, you have been working for a year now, desperately, to get your loved one out of there. imagine you're the family of an american hostage held in gaza, and you are counting among other things on the american government to do all it can to get your brother or your mother or your daughter out. alive as a hostage and here's a man running to be president of the united states saying, yeah, you know, i'm sure they're all dead. i'm sure they're all dead. trump also said in his al arabiya saudi state controlled interview today that he would have done a deal with hamas. if hamas wanted to do something like october 7th, trump would
have stepped in and done a deal with them. right, so if you liked it when trump invited the taliban to come to camp david, now, here he is two weeks before the presidential election saying if he were president again, he would make deals with hamas. that's how he would have solved the october 7th problem. >> i would have made a deal with them, and they wouldn't have done october 7th. >> you know, michael dukakis' presidential campaign cratered because he put on a helmet that made his head look like a little bean, made his face look short. donald trump pretended to work at a mcdonald's this weekend while wearing this lovely ensemble, and then the next day, he said all the hostages are dead and i want to do a deal with hamas. but our election is 50/50. this is our election this year. democratic candidate vice president kamala harris campaigned today in pennsylvania and in michigan and in wisconsin
with republican congresswoman liz cheney who is among the highest profile cross party endorsers and supporters of kamala harris. vice president harris was also just endorsed by republican susan ford bales, middle name is important there. she is the daughter of former republican president gerald ford and a lifelong republican. on mainstream economic issues which pundit world is always telling us is the bedrock of all normal election politicking, last week we talked about the economist magazine going large the past week with its special report of the rip roaring economy that the biden/harris administration is leaving in its weak. the economist calling it the envy of the urld with. after four years of biden and harris, outpacing every other major industrialized economy in the world, blowing all expectations out of the water on growth, on wages, on
manufacturing jobs. on household wealth for average american households. on top of that, entities like the "wall street journal" now reporting on the fairly devastating economic expectations from trump's policies. economists telling the journal in overwhelming numbers that trump's policies will be terrible for inflation, terrible for the deficit, terrible for interest rates. today, you can add social security to that list. a new report from a nonpartisan fiscal watchdog group setting off the alarm that what trump is proposing economically will destroy social security within six years. will end social security within six years. by the end of the decade. so the harris/walz campaign is doing normal things. with a little more pizzazz than is usual, but normal campaigning. touring swing states with republicans who are telling moderates and independents and even republicans that they
should cross over and vote not for the republican but for the democratic candidate this year. they have been doing campaign events with a-list celebrities like lizzo and usher and stevie wonder. and they're doing interviews with every media outlet you have ever heard of in your life. kamala harris' running mate tim walz sat down with the ladies of the view, he's doing the dailyshowon comedy central tonight. what's trump doing? he's telling rally audiences about the panis size of a famous golfer. announcing how he's going to shut down american news organizations, he's canceling all -- almost all of his interviews with american news organizations. and instead, he's talking to saudi arabian state controlled media to whom he has just announced that he wants to do a deal with hamas while also telling american families waiting for the return of their loved ones who are being held hostage that, yeah, as far as
he's concerned, all those hostages are probably dead. don't bother. this is not a normal election between two normal candidates. if you want to know how this one is going to end, this is the time for you to make a difference as to how it is going to end. this is it. now or never. we'll be right back. we'll be right back. (children speaking)
conflict is raging across the world, and millions of children's lives are being devastated by war, hunger, disease and poverty. we urgently need your help to reach children in crisis. please call or go online to give just $10 a month. only $0.33 a day. we need 1000 new monthly donors this month to help children in crisis around the world and right here at home. you can help us provide food, essentials, and lifesaving medical care to children in the most need. in the darkest times children suffer the most. you can help by calling right now
and giving just $10 a month. all we need are 1000 monthly donors. please call or go online now with your monthly gift of just $10. thanks to generous government grants, every dollar you give can have up to ten times the impact and when you call with your credit card, we will send you this save the children tote bag as a thank you for your support. your small monthly donation of just $10. could be the reason a child in crisis survives.showthem they're not alone. please call or go online to givetosave.org to help save lives.
emergen-c crystals pop and fizz when you throw them back. and who doesn't love a good throwback? ♪♪ now with vitamin d for the dark days of winter. let's go boys. now with vitamin d the way that i approach work, post fatherhood, has really been trying to understand the generation that we're building devices for. here in the comcast family, we're building an integrated in-home wifi solution
for millions of families, like my own. connectivity is a big part of my boys' lives. it brings people together in meaningful ways. ♪ ♪ donald trump posted on twitter about hosting the miss universe pageant in moscow. he said online, quote, do you think putin will go to the pageant? if so, will he become my new best friend? what was that about? what grown man talks that way about anyone, let alone the president of russia? but that was 2013, two years later, donald trump entered the
republican primary contest for president on the night of the third presidential primary debate, we later learned that same night, he secretly signed a letter of intent to build trump tower moscow, which would have been the biggest real estate project of his entire life. he lied about that and kept that secret throughout the campaign. we didn't learn about it until after he had been elected president. while he was president, he insisted on meeting one-on-one with vladimir putin, without any american staff present. and he did so on at least five different occasions. in at least one of though instances in a 2017 meeting in germany, trump personally confiscated the notes that had been taken at that meeting by his own interpreter. since leaving the presidency, bob woodward now reports that trump has continued to have secret one-on-one communications with vladimir putin. not only refusing to report his communications to the u.s. government, which is arguably
illegal, anyway, but he's also not been allowing even his own staff to be nearby when he speaks with putin. what about his communications with putin needs to be so secret? putin's government, of course, interfered in the u.s. election in 2016 to try to help trump get elected. in the 2020 election, they ran a robust foreign influence operation to try to prevent joe biden from becoming trump's democratic opponent. now in 2024, russia is just flat out paying pro-trump conservative commentators in the united states as part of yet another large russian state sponsored effort to try to help donald trump's campaign. we have a hard time in the united states calling whatever is going on with donald trump and the republican party, we have a hard time calling it authoritarianism. we get nervous about the word, the idea of authoritarianism. we get nervous about what that
might mean here in a domestic context. but we can all at least agree that trump does have some kind of weird freaking relationship, a servile, almost worshipful relationship with somebody who everyone in america can agree is an authoritarian, if not a fascist dictator. vladimir putin. and that admiration that trump has for putin is as inexplicable as ever. it's undimmed by the passing of years. and more explicitly now than ever before, it extends not just to trump personally wanting putin to like him, personally seemingly trump wanting to be like putin, but now, it explicitly seems to extend to trump wanting our country, the united states, to be more like russia is under putin's control. so in this campaign for president, what we hear from trump is that news organizations should not be allowed to air
criticism of him or to air interviews with his opponents. he will shut those news organizations down when he is back in power. we hear from him that democratic politicians should not be allowed to run against him, and they're all criminals. we hear from him that portions of the u.s. constitution should be terminated. we hear from him that businesses that don't do what he wants will be crushed when he's back in power. he says let's withdraw from nato, let's let russia do, quote, whatever the hell it wants to our allies. let's use the military against american civilians who dare to protest against him. vladimir putin has been in power in russia for 25 years. russia's the largest country in the world, it has almost infinite economic potential, particularly during this last 25 years. it is a country of fantastic natural resources, and almost unparalleled legacy of cultural and scientific achievement, a
country whose enemies frankly mostly dissolved with the disillusion of the soviet union. the horizons were endless, possibilities limitless. but under vladimir putin, russia, again, a country that covers a tenth of the world's land mass, russia has an economy smaller than italy's. russia's per capita gdp is lower than bulgaria, lower than mexico, and why is that? well, why russia languishes as a country, its criminal elite connected to putin, they buy up luxury real estate and yachts and private jets and vineyards and resorts and private islands all over the world, including here. and putin himself, long rumored to be the world's richest man, he builds himself palaces like this one on the black sea.
authoritarianism isn't just a textbook term in political science. and it isn't just dystopian. it isn't just cruel and repressive. it is also always corrupt. and therefore pitiful, and everyone in the world deserves better. and in a better world, it would not be vladimir putin right now, it would be this man who would be the president of russia. the head of the anti-corruption foundation, a nonprofit organization in russia. a man who made that video that i just showed you, showing putin's secret palace on the black sea. along with so many other damning and incredibly newsworthy and incredibly well researched investigative reports on the secret wealth of putin and his henchmen who have spent the last 25 years robbing that country blind. his name is alexei navalny, and he is the most effective and inspiring opposition figure of modern russia.
and alexei navalny's leadership has been characterized by a refusal to be afraid, a relentless sense of humor, and an even more relentless commitment to the certainty that putin's regime will end. that there will be a russia without putin, that it's inevitable that the lies will collapse in on themselves, that the party of crooks and thieves, putin's party, will finally be thrown out. the inevitable certainty that democracy is coming. they started arresting alexei navalny in 2011, and they never really stopped. they tried to blind him in chemical attacks twice. they banned him from running for office. they banned his organization, they ultimately gave it the same classification as al qaeda and isis. they arrested and imprisoned his younger brother. they arrested his colleagues,
they arrested even his lawyers. and then this year, this february, they killed him in prison. his wife yulia survives him, they have now put out an arrest warrant for her as well. she lives in exile because she has to. alexei navalny was the man who should be the president of a free democratic russia right now in 2024. after his death, now instead, it should be his wife. in some ways it is his wife, yulia navalny, continuing the investigations into the corruption of the authoritarian regime that still rules her country. leading not yet a government but for now the people of that country who aren't just yearning to be free from that stupid kleptocratic dictatorship, but leading the people who are actively working to get free and to prepare to live in a democracy instead. because the certainty remains that it is coming. and for us, for people all
around the world, including here in the united states, who aren't trying to overthrow a dictatorship, who instead are trying to stop the authoritarian takeover of our existing democratic system, this woman, this yulia, seems like one of the most important people in the world who we could meet at the crossroads. yulia navalny is a russian opposition leader, the wife, now the widow of alexei navalny. navalny's secret prison diaries and his memoir are somehow miraculously being published this week. i read every word of the book. yulia, it's a real honor to have you here. thank you. >> hello,rachel. thank you for having me. it's a great honor, and thank you for your kind words. >> i will tell you, we're in the midst of a very heated election system -- season in this country, as you know, and my confession to you is that i did not intend to read all of the book. i thought, i am not going to
have time. i'm really busy. i'm going to read the beginning and the end, have people read it. i read every word of it. i couldn't stop reading it. i found it incredibly moving. >> thank you. >> can you tell me a little bit about what it took to get the book into print? i imagine that you had to have a hand in editing the manuscript. i imagine there may have been some hard decisions for you in terms of things that felt personal that you might have wanted to keep between you and your husband that you nevertheless put it in the book, what was it like to bring it to fruition? >> it's very important for me, this book. my memorial of my husband, his legacy. and that's why it was difficult in some ways to put some parts together. but i would say to you that we didn't cut lot in editing. i think that everything what was
in this book, it was true, and i wanted to keep alexei's voice to sound loud and to sound open. and it was to bring the truth. >> one of the things he writes about that is very moving is how much your support meant to him and how much it made him more capable as a leader and as an activist to know that you were with him, that you agreed with him, that you already agreed with him before he ever had a chance to talk to you about it. he talks about it very movingly when he's been poisoned with the nerve agent. he's near lethree weeks in a coma in germany. they very nearly kill him, and he writes movingly about how your presence was a neurobiological miracle, the only thing that brought him back. and the thing that i thought about that preparing to talk to you today is that in many ways
you have stepped into his shoes. you're the leader of the russian opposition. because he can't be anymore. but who can be that role for you, who can support you the way that you supported him? >> thank you. everything what you're saying is a compliment. and it's very nice to hear it. i think you called me the leader of opposition a little bit in advance. i would call myself a young politician probably in some ways. of course, i knew about politics a lot because i have been living with the leader, a real leader of the opposition for many years. but i promise i will do my best. and it's very important for me in many reasons and for my country and for my family and for my children and for alexei's memory. who is supporting me? i think that it's a main problem because of course we supported
each other. and it was very easy for him and very easy for me in some very difficult moments because, you know, after all this, we can go to lie down on the bed, just touching our hands. and it was like very helpful. and i miss it a lot. and i'm doing all this interviews, meetings, and everything. and what i wish a lot to come back home every evening and to discuss everything with him. or even when he was in prison, to write him a letter telling him what's going on in my life. but still, i think that love to him, love to country, all the
supporters who supported alexei and who support me now, they give me power. and i appreciate all these kind words, a lot of letters of support from many, many people. >> alexei writes in the book that when the regime started arresting him and imprisoning him, he says they had two aims. and the first was to hurt his ability to work. he says when you're in prison it's hard to get your work done. even when you're under house arrest, it's hard to get your work done. when he was obviously a very committed candidate for office, i found it moving that he wrote about not wanting to be a protest or symbolic candidate. he wanted to be a candidate who would win. he believed in democracy and wanted to make people's votes really count for something. so to stop his work, the other reason for arresting him and charging him with the things they charged him with was to
undercut his message. he's obviously an anti-corruption crusader. they would charge him with things that made him seem like he's the corrupt one. it seems to me, though, the other reason -- there's a third aim in arresting him and imprisoning him, which is to break down other people's will. to make an example of him so that what happened to him would scare other people. especially after what has happened to him, and what has happened to the media, what has happened to the opposition, and what has happened with russia during the ukraine war, which has made everything worse, do you still believe that the collapse of the regime is inevitable and that russia will be democratic one day? >> of course. how could i not believe. alexei sacrificed all his life for this, and i feel like i must continue his work. i feel like i must continue what he did for many, many years.
it's very important for me, and i believe that, you know, all these changes, they often happen in one day. it doesn't mean that we need to sit down in a chair and to weigh them one day to another day. of course, you need to do something. but it doesn't mean that we need to do every day like huge things, just to do every day something small to encourage people to motivate people, toshowthem that we are all together against this regime, against war, against putin especially. and we are together in this aim. >> i apologize for asking you an american centered question, but we have this big very high stakes election right now. >> i know. >> you're aware.
i do think that the relationship, the sort of admiration that the republican candidate donald trump has for putin is inexplicable and it's undimmed. it hasn't changed at all. i do think he's proposing that the united states should drop our form of government and adopt something more like what putin has done to russia. and if we choose him as our president, that means that america has freely and of our own free will electively chosen that kind of a change for us as a country. and we might do it. i don't know what's going to happen in this election. from your vantage point, do you -- how does that strike you? what do you think about the fact that america may choose that as its future? >> i hope that america will do the right choice. and i believe in democratic institutions. i know you have a lot of
conversations, but compared to russia, i can be jealous that you are having such things like independent court, independent media. you can criticize candidates on tv. and so i am sure that america will do the right choice and you'll be fine. >> you have had some interaction, i know, in particular with vice president kamala harris. when you were named one of the world's most influential people by "time" magazine. what have your interactions with her been like and do you feel like she understands the stakes of what you're fighting for? >> last time i spoke with her on the first of august by phone, she called me about a prisoner swap which happened between america, germany, and russia. and i really appreciated.
it was very warm. very private and personal talk. and she told me that she remembered what my husband and my family did. and are doing to make russia democratic country, and of course, i very appreciated that exactly this day she called me and that means for me a lot. >> last question for you. i think it means a lot to the world that patriot, the memoir, alexei's prison diaries and also his memoir, are out now. it's a remarkable book. as i said, i did not intend to read all of it. i did not have time. you really messed me up. >> sorry. >> but it took a lot to get this out into the world. a lot of risk and a lot of effort, and it's a remarkable document. what do you want -- what do you
want people to take away from this? what do you think is the most important thing for people to know about this book? >> there are two parts. i want people to be encouraged by this book, not to give up. not to continue the fight because as you know, now in the world, there are more and more authoritarian regimes. and alexei's great example that people never give up, even in prison, even in torture conditions, they continue their fight, because he was fighting even from prison. but also, of course, people will know my husband, that he was a great man, that he was very kind. very funny. and very loved person. >> his sense of humor and his creativity even under duress to me is inspiring.
and i don't know other resistance leaders of my generation, of my time that bring that to it in a way that really made me think in a completely different way about what it means to stand up for freedom, stand up for freedom of choice. yulia, it's a real honor to have you here, and i wish all the best for you. i just hope doors open for you everywhere and i wish all the best for you. >> thank you. >> thank you so much. we'll be right back. stay with us. ay with us (luke) oh, no, no, no! we're still not sure everyone knows that we're the only site that always connects you to the listing agent rather than selling off your contact info. so, we're gonna keep you up there a little while longer. (agent) okay, ya! i'm getting great exposure. (marci) speaking of exposure, could we get him a hat? (luke) ooo, what about a beret? (vo) homes-dot-com. we've done your home work.




really big deal in republican politics. he was the spokesman for the rnc, you now know him as an msnbc analyst. he hosts a podcast at the bulwark, and tim miller recently unearthed this tape he published at the bulwark, a republican donor and rich guy named david saks. and two other silicon valley zillionairs talking on their podcast two days after january 6th. two days after the trump mob attack on congress on january 6th. watch. >> i don't hear anybody defending the storming of the capitol. is trump responsible? yes, clearly. >> 100%. >> 100%. yes. if you want to see this mob as a gun, i think he loaded the gun. he pointed it in a certain direction. >> is that the end of his political career? >> i think he's disqualified himself from being a candidate at a national level.
>> i would rather take every single person arrested and give them zero days in jail and add it all up and give it to trump. it was just perverted by this [ bleep ] scumbag. >> yep. >> he's a complete [ bleep ] scumbag. >> garbage. >> wow. that's satisfying. >> two days after january 6th, trump has disqualified himself from being a candidate, says david saks. he should get all the prison time that anybody is going to get for that riot, he's a complete piece of swear word, swear word scumbag. he's garbage. so that was two days after january 6th, that was 2021. not that long ago. now, this year, two of those same guys hosted a lavish fund-raiser for trump in san francisco and have since become some of trump's biggest boosters in the 2024 election from the business and tech world. leaders of a group of super wealthy, eccentric right wing
silicon valley guys who have just poured money into getting trump back into the white house. it's a real turn in a very short amount of time, from trump is disqualified, he should be jailed indefinitely. he's a scumbag, he's garbage, to multimillion dollar fund-raisers at my house. and constant praise and they're all in to get trump back into the white house. the tech billionaire class is really distinguishing itself in terms of its principles at this time in american history. but none more so than this one. tonight, "the washington post" reporting that multiple republican officials have just written to the u.s. justs department asking for help with this guy. former republican lawmakers, advisers and justice department officials have called on merrick garland to investigate tech billionaire elon musk for awarding cash prizes to voters in swing states. part of his support for trump's
candidacy. immigrant from south africa, defense contractor, world's richest man, elon musk is so committed to getting trump re-elected, he's basically funding and running trump's get out the vote operation in swing states to decidedly mixed reviews thus far. now, there are questions as to whether elon musk and his eagerness may have crossed the line into law breaking. musk is offering a daily prize of $1 million that he says is available only to registered voters in battleground states. if you register to vote in a swing state and you sign a meaningless nonbinding elon musk petition, that makes you eligible for elon musk to give you a million dollars, which he says he's going to do to someone every day until the election, as part of supporting trump's campaign. the problem is, very explicit, very simple federal law prohibits paying or offering to pay anyone to vote or paying or
offering to pay somebody to register to vote. lots of election law experts are now saying what elon musk is doing here is pretty blatantly illegal, breaking this particular federal law is supposed to get you five years in prison. thus far, the u.s. justice department is declining to say whether it's investigating or not but he's doing this every day now. tick-tock, watch this space. ch . this thrill seeker down. lost her card, not the vibe. the soul searcher, is finding his identity, and helping to protect it. hey! oh yeah, the explorer! she's looking to dive deeper... all while chase looks out for her. because these friends have chase. alerts that help check. tools that help protect. one bank that puts you in control. chase. make more of what's yours. (children speaking)
conflict is raging across the world, and millions of children's lives are being devastated by war, hunger, disease and poverty. we urgently need your help to reach children in crisis. please call or go online to give just $10 a month. only $0.33 a day. we need 1000 new monthly donors this month to help children in crisis around the world and right here at home. you can help us provide food, essentials, and lifesaving medical care to children in the most need. in the darkest times children suffer the most. you can help by calling right now
and giving just $10 a month. all we need are 1000 monthly donors. please call or go online now with your monthly gift of just $10. thanks to generous government grants, every dollar you give can have up to ten times the impact and when you call with your credit card, we will send you this save the children tote bag as a thank you for your support. your small monthly donation of just $10. could be the reason a child in crisis survives.showthem they're not alone. please call or go online to givetosave.org to help save lives. ahh, yellow! didn't pass the tissue test? buckle up! whoa! there's toothpaste white, and there's crest 3dwhitestrips white. whitens like a 400 dollar professional treatment. pilot: prepare for non-stop smiles.
crest. hi. i use febreze fade defy plug. and i use this. febreze has a microchip to control scent release so it smells first-day fresh for 50 days. 50 days!? and its refill reminder light means i'll never miss a day of freshness.
♪ upset stomach iberogast indigestion iberogast bloating iberogast thanks to a unique combination of herbs, iberogast helps relieve six digestive symptoms to help you feel better. six digestive symptoms. the power of nature. iberogast.   imagine being a u.s. senator and having all of your state's biggest newspapers come out against you. basically all at once while you're running for re-election. that is the dream that senator ted cruz has been living over the past few days. as of this weekend, all five of the biggest newspapers in texas have endorsed ted cruz's democratic opponent, colin allred. and we could call that the biggest embarrassment suffered
by a senator at the hands of his homestate newspaper, but there's stiff competition. last week in missouri, for example, republican senator josh tawly not only saw the dispatch endorse his challenger, but senator hawley managed to flunk that with distinction. for reasons above and beyond partisan considerations, josh hawley is quite possibly the worst sitting senator in america right now. that's the biggest paper in josh hawley's home state. this is supposed to be a year in when republicans are favored to take over the senate, but this is also a year when republicans a running a string of beleaguered, scandal-ridden and unpopular candidates in states they need to win, while democrats are showing they have a chance in some very unlikely places. one of the best hopes for a democratic upset is in texas. colin allred, fresh off that string of blockbuster endorsements from all the biggest papers in texas, he's
going to be on the last word with lawrence o'donnell right after thisshow. watch this space. after thisshow. watch this space ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ it's nice to know you're free to focus on what matters, with reliable medicare coverage from unitedhealthcare. ♪♪

two quick things before i go. first of all, there is much more of my interview with yulia navalnaya than we were able toshowyou tonight.whole thing on youtube including her very pointed message to the u.s. about what we're doing wrong when it comes to vladimir putin. you can find the whole thing posted on cut on youtube. also tomorrow night al