pete g. writes, "my tween wants a new phone. how do i not break the bank?" we gotcha, pete. xfinity mobile was designed to save you money and gives you access to wifi speeds up to a gig. so you get high speeds for low prices. better than getting low speeds for high prices. right, bruce? -jealous? yeah, look at that. -honestly. someone get a helmet on this guy. xfinity internet customers, ask how to get a free 5g phone and a second unlimited line free for a year. switch today!
that does it for us and you can listen to every episode for free and just scan the qr code at the bottom of your screen. for now i am signing off, thank you for staying up late with me. i will see you at the end of tomorrow.   i am really happy to have you here. a quick note before we get started tonight. right now it is monday night which is when you are used to seeing me here on the tv machine. your eyes are not deceiving you. your it is. but this week i will also be here on friday. we are doing a special edition of therachelmaddowshowat the end of the week on friday at 8:00 p.m. eastern time. at 9:00 p.m. eastern, right after therachel
maddowshow, we will be showing my new movie, my new documentary called from russia with lev about the first trump impeachment and what was both so terrible and equally so stupid about that entire scandal. so if you want to pop it on your calendar or start your dvr right now. i am here is normal but you will get a secondshowthis week on friday. right after at 9:00 p.m. eastern on friday you can see my new movie from russia with lev . we start tonight and this fraught and unnerving place we are in with american is in politics and frankly in american life right now. the last time there were multiple assassination plots against a president a presidential candidate in such quick succession, it was 50
years ago, 49 years ago this month in fact of september 1995 with president ford at a park in sacramento, california when a fanatical follower of charles manson pulled out a 45 and pointed it at him and not even three weeks later, also in california but in another city in san francisco, another woman did fire two shots at president ford in close proximity at a hotel in san francisco in both the shots she fired from her 38 special went wide after a u.s. marine combat veteran saw what she was doing and saw the gun and knocked her arm while she fired which is why she missed. so president ford wasn't hurt
in either of those attempts, but they did come in quick succession. in september of 1975, the country was unnerved by having two different crazy people pull a gun on a president of the united states twice in the space of a month. we haven't seen anything like this since then. but now with the arrest of the suspected gunman who pointed a rifle toward donald trump while golfing in florida yesterday, we had the second instance in the space of nine weeks of a former president and presidential candidate donald trump being threatened by a potential assassin. now, trump of course is fine and the man with the gun at the golf course never fired his gun before the secret service spotted him and they shot at him and he is already facing gun charges with presumably more to follow. but this is obviously absolutely terrible news and terrible news for everybody in the country. it is terrible news for where we are at of the country in terrible news is too far -- as
far as what the secret service is contending with and it's the worst of all possible wildcards in a political season that is already quite wild and not in a good way. think about this past month. it was a month ago almost exactly when trump disparaged americans who have received the nation's highest military honor, the medal of honor saying most recipients of that award were killed or injured in the process of earning it so other medals like the one he gave to his biggest campaign donor are better awards. and just an astonishing thing for anybody in american public life to say and even anybody in private life to say let alone somebody who is a former president and wants to be president again and just an astonishing and offensive and ignorant remark against
americans who are literally the most decorated military heroes in our nation. and 10 days later his campaign staff physically shoved an employee at arlington national cemetery when she tried to stop trump and his team from filming political campaign videos at arlington which you aren't allowed to do for all the obvious reasons and not just because it is the rules but because it's the only decent thing to do. and in short order after those two things, one of the headline primetime speakers from trump's nominating convention today to our gushing interview with a prominent holocaust denier and trump's running mate nevertheless nevertheless decided to go with his own appearances with that speaker. each of those things sort of astonishing for any presidential candidate or any political campaign or of any
kind and honestly for anybody in american public life and anyone of those things would be such an astonishing scandal to drag with you and to whatever else you wanted to do next and your life but those three things in quick succession what trump brought with them into the first and potentially his only debate with vice president harris in that debate was a disaster for him and a debacle. polling shows that vice president harris winning that debate by an astonishing 22 point margin. and on the crucial issue of the economy alone, postdebate polling shows kamala harris polling ahead of and away from trump in terms of who the country trusts the most on the economy which is just one of the metrics that has gone completely south for trump following that disastrous debate . national polling of the presidential race started consistently showing vice president harris eating former
president trump. since that terrible debate performance, his campaign and his appearances have been shambolic. he said that the host of the debate should have the broadcast license revoked and he regularly threatens now against any media outlet that airs anything he doesn't like. he said that after the debate his opponent must have had magic earrings on at the debate that said her the right answers and that debate. he told the campaign rally that california, the state of california has a giant faucet and that was his phrase with a handle that he said is the size of the building and such a big faucet with such a big handle that it takes a whole day to turn the faucet on or off and he said that faucet, which he has invented, that is how
california dumps all of canada's water into the sea. and when he is president, that faucet won't turn the water into the sea anymore. what are you talking about? he invited a musical artist named nikki jam to join him at another rally saying you know nikki, she is hot. nikki jam then joined former president trump on stage and surprised him very much by being a man. trump brought out an outspoken bigot and 9/11 conspiracy theorist to the 9/11 commemoration in lower manhattan. she made a series of viciously almost astonishingly racial statements about how terrible it would be to have kamala harris in the white house where she already is because harris is of indian descent on her
mother's side and jd vance was asked to comment because his wife is also an indian or of indian descent and he swallowed it and said i don't think that's insulting. and for what it's worth, these comments were wildly and profoundly and baldly insulting to anybody of indian descent and whether or not jd vance cares about that, there are large indian american constituency in swing states like georgia and north carolina and they will likely care. and pr revealed that the new jersey golf club twice this summer hosted this man, the one with the hitler haircut and hitler mustache convicted five times over for his behavior during the january six attack on the united states capitol in his trial invoked previous statements of his like "hitler should have finish the job and babies born with any deformities or disabilities should be shot in the four
head." he posted a lengthy video online in 2020 about what he called the jewish invasion of new jersey and he compared jewish people to a "plague of locusts." and then trump hosted him twice at his new jersey golf clothes -- club this summer. the second appearance of the hitler mustache guy at his club was the next day by trump posting at that same club and at an anti-semitism event. the day after the hitler mustache guy, the day after the jewish invasion of new jersey guy. this comes inconveniently just as blatantly anti-semitic television ads targeting kamala harris's husband for being jewish have started running in michigan thanks to a republican linked political action committee. and now getting national
attention there. as i said, this is a wild political season and i don't mean in a good way. but trump has over the last few days effectively stopped coverage of almost all of the things i just described and done so by making such a fantastically outrageous and racist and dangerous false claims about haitian immigrants that just about everybody understandably feels compelled to stop what they are doing and prioritize coverage and condemnation of this truly awful consequential bad thing instead of whatever else they wanted to report or discuss about how the campaign is going and what the american people ought to understand about the stakes in the selection. that of course serves trump well. anybody who thinks that the springfield, ohio lies about haitian migrants is going poorly for trump should consider the context in which he has not just brought this
up, but he and his running mate have repeatedly insisted that this is what we ought to be talking about. this isn't bad for them, not as they see it. if you are taking a midterm or final exam and you have no clue what the answers are, and you will definitely fail this test, why not get up and pull the fire alarm? you may get in some kind of trouble for pulling the fire alarm, but you failing is no longer going to be the story. it is made to order outrage in the press was supposed to learn about something about dealing with this in 2016 or 2015. what we were supposed to learn is that part of dealing with the tactic of made to order outrage is it is his orders. it keeps the discussion on things he is framing rather than what the election may be about. so his made to order more outrages have to be called out
as false and nonsense because they are dangerous and they not only invite but demand a terrible response for people who fall from this -- for this stuff. we should trace the origin of this garbage in this case the lies about haitian immigrants and in this case the specific lies about these specific immigrants go to a little nazi group pushing this lie in springfield, ohio and then parading in springs -- springfield ohio with swastika flags. this is where the campaign got this. we should actually care for and protect the people who are being harmed by this garbage obviously and they are having to post ohio state troopers at springfield ohio elementary schools now because of what trump and vance have done in lying about this. also recognize what they are doing is a tactic and recognize
why they're doing it. they are doing it to change the subject or pull the proverbial fire alarm to get us talking about him in this issue he has chosen because he likes these nouns and verbs and he likes this framing. he wants us to talk about this trash and he wants this to be the main subject of discussion in the country instead of, i don't know kamala harris beating the pants off of him and that debate and him humiliating himself by showing himself unable to talk about anything other than ego driven concerns related to himself. they would love for us to be talking about anything other than harris wiping the floor with him at the debate or love for us to be talking about anything other than her being endorsed by an unprecedented senior military leaders that have served under both parties and love for us to be talking about anything than a shocking
roster of a-list business leaders who have just endorsed kamala harris and i would love for us to be talking about anything other than most recently a group of former ronald reagan staffers who have endorsed kamala harris. this is a tactic. we were supposed to get better at not having our chains yanked after living through this experience since 2015 and we are almost 10 years into this. it is the made order outrage from trump and his cohort designed to get us talking about this outrage rather than any other issue that may more reasonably frame the real stakes of an election are the real threat of trump's presidency. hillary clinton has a new book out that was finished just before president biden made his decision not to run for the reelection but instead endorse vice president harris. when joe biden made that
decision, hillary clinton's book was already at the printers and she nevertheless decided to get back to the writing desk and fire off a new epilogue to the book about this change in american political fortune and she says this, "on july 21, 2024 when joe biden announced that he was dropping out of the presidential race and endorsing kamala harris, the dream of seeing a woman in the oval office was suddenly back within reach. it wouldn't be meat but it -- me but it could be,. history -- history back and but a whole lot as bigotry, fear and disinformation stood in the way. could we do it and finally shatter that highest hardest glass ceiling improve that in america there is no limit to what is possible?" that sunday afternoon when bill and i heard that biden was withdrawing and endorsing, we drafted a joint statement saluting him and also endorsing
her. she is talented, experienced, and ready to be president. so it was an easy decision. after the statement went public, she called us and she was remarkably calm for somebody who had just been thrown into the deep end of a bottomless pool. she told us she wanted to earn the nomination. she said i am going to need your help. we told her we will do whatever you need and we were both ready to do everything we could to help get her elected. i don't want to sugarcoat what we are up against especially at a moment when we are already to fight back not just for kamala but for a better self and an optimistic generous vision of our future. but, as i reminded myself that sunday as the new sink in and as i tell every young woman i meet, we can't give into fear. it's a trap to believe that progress is impossible.
some people have asked how i feel about the prospect of another woman poised to achieve the breakthrough i didn't. if i am being honest, in the years after 2016, i also wondered how i feel if another woman had ever took the torch that i had carried so far and ran on with it and would some little voice whisper that should've been me? now i know the answer. after i got off the phone with the vice president, i looked at bill with a huge smile and said this is exciting. i felt promise. i felt possibility. it was exhilarating. >> hillary clinton joins me live here next. here next thursday night football on prime. it's on. the new england patriots take on the new york jets, as thursday night football is on.
stream thursday night football. only on prime. type 2 diabetes? discover the ozempic® tri-zone. ♪ ♪ i got the power of 3. i lowered my a1c, cv risk, and lost some weight. in studies, the majority of people reached an a1c under 7 and maintained it. i'm under 7. ozempic® lowers the risk of major cardiovascular events such as stroke, heart attack, or death in adults also with known heart disease. i'm lowering my risk. adults lost up to 14 pounds. i lost some weight. ozempic® isn't for people with type 1 diabetes. don't share needles or pens, or reuse needles. don't take ozempic® if you or your family ever had medullary thyroid cancer, or have multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 2, or if allergic to it. stop ozempic® and get medical help right away if you get a lump or swelling in your neck, severe stomach pain, or an allergic reaction. serious side effects may include pancreatitis. gallbladder problems may occur. tell your provider about vision problems or changes. taking ozempic® with a sulfonylurea or insulin may increase low blood sugar risk. side effects like nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea may lead to dehydration, which may worsen kidney problems.
living with type 2 diabetes? ask about the power of 3 with ozempic®. dupixent helps people with asthma breathe better in as little as 2 weeks. and when you can breathe better, what isn't better? this is better. this is better. that's better. and that. even this. dupixent is an add-on treatment for specific types of moderate-to-severe asthma. it works with your asthma medicine to help improve lung function. that's pretty good! dupixent is not for sudden breathing problems. it's proven to help prevent asthma attacks. it can reduce or even eliminate oral steroids. and doesn't that make things better? dupixent can cause allergic reactions that can be severe. tell your doctor right away if you have rash, chest pain, worsening shortness of breath, tingling or numbness in your limbs. tell your doctor about new or worsening joint aches and pain or a parasitic infection. don't change or stop asthma medicines including steroids, without talking to your doctor. when you can get more out of your lungs, you can du more with less asthma. and isn't that better?
ask your doctor about dupixent, the most prescribed biologic in asthma.
craig here pays too much for verizon wireless. ask your doctor about dupixent, so he sublet half his real estate office to a pet shop. there's a smarter way to save. comcast business mobile. you could save up to an incredible 70% on your wireless bill. so you don't have to compromise. powering smarter savings. powering possibilities. switch to comcast busines internet and mobile and find out how to get the latest 5g phone on us with a qualifying trade-in. don't wait! call, click or visit an xfinity store today.   i want my grandchildren and their grandchildren to know that i was here at this moment, that we were here. and that we were with kamala harris every step of the way.
this is our time, america. this is when we stand up. this is when we break through. the future is here. it is in our grasp. let's go win it. >> let's go win it. that was former secretary of state, hillary clinton at a speech that brought the house down at the democratic convention last month and voicing her support for the democratic nominee kamala harris. joining us now is secretary clinic in former secretary of state, your senator and first lady and her book is called something lost something gained reflections on life, love, and liberty and i got halfway through my preview copy and immediately ordered it for my mom and dad. thank you so much for being here and it is a real pleasure.
>>rachel, it is always good to be with you. thank you. >> i wanted to ask you, as somebody who has a little bit of experience in these things, you write extensively in the book about not just the experience of running against trump but how you have felt since and where we are is a country and what is now the end of this decade of his influence on our politics. you sounded a hopeful note at the democratic convention. do you feel like democrats and americans in general are getting any better in resisting his tricks or understanding what you see as the threat of his ascending to power again? >> i think many americans are,rachel. i am particularly impressed by the many many republicans, people who served in other republican administrations, and especially people who served during trump's term as well, who are sounding the alarm and
making their voices heard as loudly as they can above the din and distraction that goes on in our political discourse right now. i think many many more people are being given the opportunity to reject what trump offers, what he represents. not as many. the race is still too close in the electoral college is the big hurdle to be overcome. i am very hopeful and even optimistic that americans who don't want to see a continuation of this politics of hate and division will reject trump. and maybe some republicans who know that they can't vote for trump will end up voting for the harris-walz ticket as well. >> i am struck by the fact that
as this campaign careens into very expensive -- offensive territory with the association of holocaust deniers in the outrage at arlington national cemetery of all places in the insults to recipients to the medal of honor in the recent incredibly racist and dangerous lies about specific group of immigrants and haitians at this point and venezuelans in the case of colorado. i am struck by the fact that as much as we thought we could've been inoculated against the outrage tactics like this were everything else gets thrown by the wayside and everybody starts responding to his outrage du jour, i sort of feel like we haven't learned. he is still being taught, especially by the media, that the more offensive he is the more he can dominate the media
space entirely. i feel like you have been a good person to diagnose that not only when you are up against him but in other instances but do you have an anecdote for that or a way that people can talk themselves out of taking that bait? >> i think that is a really critical question and a few things going on here. you mentioned the press. sadly, the press is still not able to cover trump the way they should. they careen from one outrage to the next and what was outrageous three days ago is no longer on the front page even though it threatens the physical safety of so many people particularly as you pointed out, immigrants that he and jd vance have decided to demonize. i don't understand why it is so difficult for the press to have a consistent narrative about how dangerous trump is. the late great journalist harry evans one time said that
journalists should really try to achieve objectivity. by that they should cover the object. the object in this case is donald trump and his demagoguery, his danger to our country in the world and stick with it. they were merciless about what they saw as president biden problems in the debate and calling for him to withdraw. i believe donald trump has disqualified himself over and over again to be a presidential candidate let alone a president. the second thing though is part of what trump is counting on is for people to get desensitized. i mean, oh my gosh, did you
hear what he said yesterday and did you hear who he attacked and the viciousness? it's like with a shrug we say fine, we are moving on. well, americans need to understand that they have to take trump both seriously and literally. he has said what he wants to do. he and his allies with project 2025, his desire to be a dictator at least on day one, all of that, it is in the public record. i do believe that more americans have to be willing to indoor what frankly is discomforting and to some extent kind of painful, to take him at his word, and to be outraged by what he represents. finally, the hopeful side of this is that i think more and more americans are rejecting the kind of chaos he represents.
we can't go back and that is what the harris campaign says all the time. we are not going back. we are not going back to what he failed to do to protect american lives during covid. we are not going back to the romance with dictators that puts innocent lives at risk and america's security in danger. we can't go back and give this very dangerous man another chance to do harm to our country in the world. >> speaking of dictators, the justice department and the state department have taken a number of actions in the past several weeks, striking actions, to both call out, indict, and take action against the kremlin for their attempts at interfering in yet another presidential election cycle on trump's behalf. the state department has put out a $10 million reward for information leading to information for people illegally interfere in our
election and we have seen these dramatic indictments from the justice department including for paying millions of dollars, the kremlin paying to pro trump influencers and we have seen the justice department sees web domains where the kremlin set up news sites and looked like versions of these news sites that were secretly operated by the russian government. do you feel like the u.s. government is starting to figure out how to do this and taking it seriously enough? or do you think there is a far distance to go?'s >> i think there is a far distance to go. i applaud the actions taken by the justice department and the state department. i think they are very important. truly, we are just at the beginning of uncovering everything that russia, and not just russia but other countries have done and are doing, to
influence our election. if you focus on russia, and i commend you for your new movie. we are only at the beginning of understanding the whole iceberg here. what the russians started doing in 2015 and 2016, what they continued doing, they have gotten more sophisticated. they are not even pretending anymore. there is an international news operation and even an arm of its intelligence operation is basically an extension of their efforts and they are using americans, both those who are willing and those who are unwilling and they are getting $400,000 a week or $100,000 a podcast to parrot kremlin propaganda. and we know from what even
republicans have said, the chairs of the intelligence committee and the foreign affairs committee and other republicans who are currently in office have said that republicans go to the floor of the congress and pair it -- repeat russian talking points. i think it's important to indict russians just as mueller indicted a lot of russians who were engaged in direct direction -- election interference and boosting trump in 2016. i also think there are americans engaged in this kind of propaganda. and whether they should be civilly or maybe in some cases criminally charged is something that would be a better deterrent. the russians are unlikely, except in a very few cases to ever stand trial in the united states. they are not going to be going to a country where they can be extradited or even returning to
the united states unless they are very foolish. i think we need to uncover all of the connections and make it very clear that you can vote however you want, but we won't let adversaries, whether it is russia, china, iran or anybody else basically try to influence americans as to how we should vote in picking our leaders. >> hillary rodham clinton, the new book is called something lost, something gained, reflections on life, love, liberty. madam secretary, i want to thank you in particular for the large sidebar on charles lindbergh and his echoes in today's politics and i know you didn't do it especially for me but it did go straight to my heart. thank you. >> i am so glad you noticed that. thank you very much. >> you injected straight into my veins.
thank you so much. i have to tell you that our next guest appears on page 27 of secretary clinton's new book where she cites his explanation of fascism. "fascism is might overwrite, conspiracy of reality, fiction over fact, pain over law, blood over love, doom over hope." the great tim snyder himself will join us here after this break. stay with us. with us

psst psst! aaaah! with flonase, allergies don't have to be scary. spray flonase sensimist daily, for non-drowsy, long-lasting relief... in a scent-free, fine mist. psst psst! flonase. all good. we always had dogs, they're like my best buddies. yep, had them my whole life. c'mon bo! so we got him and he is a, an absolute joy.
daddy's puppy. once we got on the farmer's dog he just attacks it, it's incredible. they're so tuned into you and they have such, such personality. being without a dog, i don't know, can't imagine it. [laughter] at betmgm, everyone gets a welcome offer. so whether you're courtside trying to hit the over... can't imagine it. or up here trying to hit the under. whew! or, hitting that win with your crew. ohhh! yes, see defense! or way up here with a same game parlay. yaw! betmgm's got your back. get your welcome offer. and play with the sportsbook born in vegas. all these seats. really? get up to a $1500 new customer offer in bonus bets when you sign up now. betmgm. download and bet today. switch to shopify so you can build it better, scale it faster and sell more. much more. take your
business to the next stage when you switch to shopify.
we are witnessing a full on attempt on hard won fundamental rights and freedoms like the freedom to vote, the freedom to be safe from gun violence, the freedom to breathe clean air and drink clean water, and the freedom to love whom you love openly and with pride. so generations of americans before us led the fight for freedom. and now the baton is in our
hands. the baton is now in our hands. >> vice president harris has made freedom the centerpiece for her presidential campaign and offered an expansive vision of what that would mean and in her formulation freedom is not just freedom from oppression but freedom from unfair or unreasonable constraints or coercion. it is that too but she consistently invokes the need to protect women's freedoms with choices of their own bodies. but the way the harris campaign has put it, freedom is also freedom to. not freedom from but freedom to do things and make your own decisions and freedom that could be made possible only by institutions and infrastructure and government that allows americans to lead their lives as they choose and not just freedom from but freedom to. and 2017, weeks after former
donald trump -- a former president donald trump took office, the historian timothy schneider published a small book that had a massive impact here in the united states but particularly around the world and a book called on tierney 20 lessons from the 20th century and it is a legitimate phenomena, a kind of practical bible on how to recognize and resist authoritarianism and protect the democratic system that is threatened arising authoritarianism. now, weeks before this year's election, he has a new book called on freedom. here is a sample that says i worry that we speak of freedom without considering what it is and americans often have in
mind the absence of something, occupation, oppression or even government and an individual is free when government is out of the way. negative freedom is our common sense and to be sure it is tempting to think of liberty as us against the world, which the notion of negative freedom allows us to do. the barriers are the only problem that all must be right and it makes us feel good. we think we could be free if not for a world outside that is wrong. but it is the removal of something in the world really enough deliberated and isn't it important enough are more important to add things? freedom to, positive freedom. while thinking about who we want to become, what do we value? how do we realize our values if we don't think of it as positive? we won't even get freedom in the negative sense since we will be unable to tell what is in fact a barrier and how they can be taken and become tools and how tools extend our freedom. freedom from is a conceptual trap and also a political trap and that it involves self- deception and no program for its own realization and offers opportunities to tyrants. but the philosophy and politics of freedom have to begin with freedom to. freedom is positive and about
holding virtues in mind and having some power to realize them. this is from on freedom, his new book. joining us now, i am very pleased to say is the yale university history professor and the author of several books including on tierney and blood lands and now on freedom which comes out tomorrow. it is good to see you and thank you for being here. >> i am happy to see you too and i am wishing you had read the audiobook. >> i am available to do that in case you need a revision. you and i have talked about how meaningful on tierney was to me personally and my understanding about tyranny and authoritarianism and what we can learn from the 20th century experience with it. eight years after that, why a book about the concept of
freedom? >> the two have a lot to do with each other. on tierney i was trying to give people advice on how to preserve what we have. but at the time when i went around the world with that talking about it, folks are asking the question, well, what exactly is that good thing you defend? what is the opposite of tierney? the answer has to be a big answer and not just that we keep the wrong people from ruling us but we decide what kind of system we should have in the answer i given this book is the kind of system we should have is one based on freedom and that freedom is the legitimation of government and we can have the right kind of government and think of it in the right way. >> you talk about freedom in terms of mobility and unpredictability. freedom in terms of solidarity. in some ways it does map a little bit to the bill of rights, i think, thinking about how our freedoms are manifest most meaningfully when we can associate with those things,
the freedom literally to move or change circumstances and we have this decision however irrational they are to others but in terms of what makes the most sense to us. it seems you defined them that in particular it takes into account what authoritarians want to do in contrast to that but in terms of what technology takes away from us. in terms of making us all think that. >> the book in a way is about how beautiful it is to be human and nothing else in the universe but we can be free but each of us has a good idea of what is good and we all have different values but the one thing we have in common is we can realize those values. on the one hand, we have to work together to create the conditions of freedom so we can live lives from infancy on word
to realize those values but on the other hand we take joy in the fact that we are different and have different ideas of what is beautiful and right and true but together we create a world where we can realize those things. i want a happy idea of freedom and it is something that should make people happy and shouldn't be about anger or opposing things and we do have to keep a bad government away but freedom is that place where we are were we become who we should be. >> i know the harris campaign didn't consult with you on that but they did choose freedom as the center concept of their campaign. do you think she is getting at the same kind of idea of positive freedom that you are talking about? >> i think in some sense you aim for the middle by being boring or pulling it in from all sides and freedom is traditional because, as you say it is a constitutional idea but it is also a left-wing idea because the conditions of freedom are the things that people on the left tend to like
and if you are a liberal, you should like freedom. freedom can get you from conservative to liberals to even all the way over to the left but you are right, the way she is talking about it is closer to being correct because once you move away from freedom just being about your impulses and pushing things away and move it toward freedom also you talk about how government can enable us to become the people we are and freedom to do this and create conditions so children can grow up to become free people is a kind of marvelous division and suddenly looked to a future that is better. >> suddenly it makes sense to have freedom is the center pace -- centerpiece of the campaign that makes it joyful. we we'll take a quick break and we will be back with timothy snyder in his book is called on freedom out tomorrow. we will be back.
♪♪ ♪if you want to win...♪ [bump] time out! only pay for what you need. ♪liberty, liberty,♪ ♪liberty, liberty.♪
(tony hawk) skating for over 45 years has taken a toll on my body. ♪liberty, liberty,♪ i take qunol turmeric because it helps with healthy joints and inflammation support. why qunol? it has superior absorption compared to regular turmeric. qunol. the brand i trust. how do you keep your teeth so white with all the coffee you drink? my secret lumineux whitening strips. i mean, that is white.
and because there's no sensitivity, i feel like i can use them more often. and you can get this at walmart or target. if you have generalized myasthenia gravis, picture what life could look like with... vyvgart hytrulo, a subcutaneous injection that takes about 30 to 90 seconds. for one thing, could it mean more time for you? vyvgart hytrulo can improve daily abilities and reduce muscle weakness with a treatment plan that's personalized to you. do not use vyvgart hytrulo if you have a serious allergy to any of its ingredients. it can cause serious allergic reactions like trouble breathing and decrease in blood pressure leading to fainting and allergic reactions such as rashes, swelling under the skin, shortness of breath, and hives. the most common side effects are respiratory and urinary tract infections, headache, and injection site reactions. it may increase the risk of infusion-related reactions and infection. tell your doctor if you have a history of infections or symptoms of an infection. talk to your neurologist about vyvgart hytrulo
for gmg and picture your life in motion. we realize some home maintenance jobs aren't worth the risk. that's when we call leaffilter to protect our gutters. leaffilter's patented filter technology keeps debris out of your gutters for good, guaranteed. call 833 leaffilter or visit leaffilter.com
we are back with tim snyder, whose new book is on freedom. i know you are back from nine or 10 days in ukraine. and at the last debate, which is probably the only debate and former president trump refused to say whether it would be a good thing for ukraine to win the war. i know that wasn't necessarily an unexpected thing, but is that a consequential thing for him to say? >> it is very consequential. ukraine winning is important for us to reserve our sense of
order and send a message to china that these kind of wars won't work out in the future and also winning for trump would seem to be a natural thing and the guy talks about winning all the time. i think it is revealing that he looks up to dictators like putin as to people to whom you should submit and i think kamala harris was right there and not just rhetorically but she is on the money. he is a strong man who wants to be -- who wants to admire stronger men and that's a dangerous place for an aspiring american president to be. >> you grew up in ohio, springfield, ohio, the center of the news because of this repellent racist diction being peddled by trump and his running mate and their supporters about haitian immigrants. i wonder from what you know about the way violence, the way
violence and dangerous rhetoric works in the way it is being used by authoritarians and would be authoritarians in the past, does that history teaches anything about the best way to protect the people who are most in danger because of it or to stop it? >> first of all, ohio needs politicians who will help this for these people into this postindustrial situation and not put us into this ridiculous us and them which is what trump and vance are doing in its wake and i don't actually care about border or border policy but telling people all of their problems come from somewhere else where in a sense they are guilty and history tells us that the dead-end and government policy can't do anything for you. it is vance. the enemy is trump and it leads toward one direction which a hard right racial situation where everybody is worse off than when we started.
>> the book is called on freedom by timothy snyder and one of the most influential big brains of our generation and thank you for this contribution and thank you for being here to talk about it. good luck. we will be right back. stay with us. is on. making the catch for the touchdown! it's aaron rodgers what a catch! up against a new era in new england. goodshow, you guys. stream thursday night football. only on prime.
when did i call leaffilter? when i saw my gutters overflowing onto my porch. leaffilter is a permanent gutter solution,
so, you never have to worry about costly damage from clogged gutters again. it's the easiest call you can make. call 833.leaf.filter today, or visit leaffilter.com. to me, harlem is home. but home is also your body. i asked myself, why doesn't pilates exist in harlem? so i started my own studio. getting a brick and mortar in new york is not easy. chase ink has supported us from studio one to studio three. when you start small, you need some big help. and chase ink was that for me. earn up to 5% cash back on business essentials with the chase ink business cash card from chase for business. make more of what's yours. let's say you're deep in ashowfrom chase for business. or a game or the game. on a train, at home, at work. okay, maybe not at work. point is at xfinity. we're constantly engineering new ways to get the entertainment you love to you faster and easier than ever. that's what i do.
is that love island?   all right, that'll do it for me now. i'll be back on friday for a special edition of therachelmaddowshowfriday, 8:00 p.m. eastern. then right after that, 9:00 p.m. eastern on friday, we're going