wanted to be in financial services, based on his experience on wall street. whether or not that happens we'll be really interesting and telling. in fact, it is gonna be a lot of wait and see. i think yes, certainly from his perspective, he would like to continue. he said multiple times that he intends to do the work that people of long island are likely to do. how many much these investigation will become a distraction, remains to be seen. >> i believe what he said, and according from memory, that would be a waste for someone with his many years in finance to not be on the financial services department. the case for him. thank you for your time tonight. >> thank you, chris.   good evening, chris.
great to see you, my friend. much appreciated. thanks for joining us at home. lots of news at all times going on right now.   in california, the monsoon styled brains there have literally 10% of the entire u.s. population living under a flood watch right now. the population of california is so big, that when 90% of californians are under a flood watch, as they are tonight, that is 20% of the whole u.s. population. in this accession of extremely wet storms, the north central coast of california has been particularly hard hit already. now, with additional storms still coming, there are all kinds of california rivers that don't usually flood that are looking out like they are going to flood. these are places where there aren't a lot of flood mitigation systems, because they are rivers that don't usually flood. there is not a lot of local
experience with inland flooding with people surviving it, and again, mitigating it. it is bad tonight. a lot of california with more rain and storms set to arrive over the next few days, keeping our eyes on that, as well as everyone else in the country.   in mexico tonight, this is an interesting story, albuquerque police have just held a press conference tonight to announce the development in the recent shooting that has targeted the homes and offices of at least a half-dozen new mexico elected officials, who are all members of the democratic party. the shootings in new mexico have helped hit buildings, not people, but apparently have been targeted at democratic politicians over the last several weeks. tonight, albuquerque police announced in a press conference that they have a suspect in custody who they believe may be connected to the shootings. they say, he is a man under the age of 50. they said, he is actually in custody on different charges
unrelated to the shootings me but they believe he is connected to the shootings targeting democrats, including the incoming new mexico speaker of the house. police also said at this press conference tonight that they have now recovered a firearm, a gun, that they believe was used in at least one of the shootings targeting new mexico democratic lawmakers. again, that news just breaking tonight from albuquerque. police will let you know more on that as we learn more.   tonight, in the state of georgia, all eyes are on the prosecutor's office in fulton county, where a special grand jury has now concluded its work after eight months of reviewing the evidence and hearing testimony from dozens of witnesses, the special grand jury convened in fulton county. today, they gave the fulton county prosecutor's office their recommendation on whether criminal charges should be brought against people who participated in the efforts to falsify the results of the presidential election of 2020. more on this coming up this hour.
obviously, this is a potentially historic undertaking. never before in the history of the united states has a former president been charged with a crime. that is a distinct possibility for former president trump in the storage investigation, the report of the special grand jury there is in, the report of the special grand jury is not public, we are not sure when it will be made public. the prosecutor's office has that report in-house and can make their recommendation, excuse me, can make their decision based on their recommendation, at this point whenever they see fit. again, more on this i had over the course of this hour tonight, including what this milestone means in terms of when we can expect to know about decisions made by that fulton county georgia prosecutor as to whether or not she will bring potential criminal charges and against home. again, more to come on that tonight, potentially a very big deal out of georgia tonight.   in washington, d.c. tonight, quite a lot going on
after a post midnight votes on friday night, republican leader kevin mccarthy is finally elected to be speaker of the house. and duly elected speaker of the house is one of the two things you need in order to have a functioning house of representatives. the other thing you need is for the house to agree on the rule by which it will do its work. that votes on the role was tonight. it was more fraught than usual, given all the side agreements kevin mccarthy had to make with pro trumpet aligners, in order to get the speakership matter settled at all. we will be checking one that this hour as well.   including, what republicans in the house maybe trying to do with that body to try and protect former trunk from these federal investigations that involve him along those lines.   there was a brief flurry of excitement on the right this afternoon when cbs news was first to report that the u.s. justice department has started investigating the discovery of classified documents found at a think tank called the penn
biden center, effectively where president biden had his office in washington after serving as vice president in the obama administration. he vacated offices there effectively when he declared his run for president in 2020. the center is sort of the biden home in d.c., in terms of his work life out of office. on november 2nd, lawyers for president biden, lawyers who work for him in his present capacity, were reportedly packing up the office space the vice president used at the pin biden center, in so doing, they found classified documents there. classified documents they say, were in a locked, inside those offices, mixed in with some nonclassified documents. this is, of course, a weird set of circumstances, but that is what they say happened. the white house has since confirms the basis of this
account, as has news organizations after cbs news was first to break the story. the reason it has created a lot of excitement on the right briefly tonight, is that it immediately created a prayer seemed what about for president trump. president trump is under investigation for apparently deliberately hoarding hundreds of classified documents at his home in florida, including, refusing to hand them over after national archives told them he had to come even after they subpoenaed him to get those documents. brief excitement on the right tonight, that they thought they had a new defense. it is supposedly so bad what trump the at at in our mar-a- lago, with the nuclear documents, joe biden is just as bad. why aren't they serving search warrants on president biden the way they did on former president trump? as i said, tonight, a brief lori of excitement on the right about this process when the news broke about the penn biden center. the reason it was only a brief
flurry of excitement is because, in president biden's case, he and his lawyers appear to have actually done the right thing when it comes to these classified documents. biden's lawyers say, they discovered these documents among his presidential pater papers on november 2nd. the white house counsel's office notified the national archives that same day about what had been found. the national archives, apparently, did not even know these documents were missing and had not been seeking their return. the archives took custody of that material the following morning. that appears to be it. attorney general merrick garland has asked one of the last remaining from appointed u.s. attorneys to review the discovery of these documents at the penn biden center, but it does not sound like it is an adversarial process at all . the white house says, is cooperating fully with the national archives and department of justice on the review. again, this was not , as it was in trump's case, the archives
desperately seeking the return of the material that trump was blowing off, and trump was going off those requests, and ultimately, blowing off the subpoena to return those documents. these appear to be documents that were inadvertently held at the penn biden, discovered by biden's attorneys. they notified the white house, which notified immediately the national archives , that these documents were in the wrong place. the archives moved to immediately retrieve them. that seems to be the sum total of it, as far as we know. the white house says, they are cooperating fully with the archives and department of justice on reviewing the situation. again, we will bring you more on this if we learn more about it tonight. the brief euphoria on the right that this would somehow exonerate trump, already turning into a bit of a hangover because of the stark contrast between the actions of the current president and former guy when it comes to classified material.   when it comes to accountability, president and
former presidents, this is actually what i have been stuck on all day. this was arizona, april 20th, 2020. right-wing protesters, lots of whom had a good, stormed the governor's office in arizona, what is called the executive tower in phoenix, where the arizona governor has his offices , april 20th, 2020. this was michigan 10 days later, april 30th, 2020. right-wing protesters storming into the michigan state capital. former president responded to that action by saying online quote, these are very good people. this is a few months after that, august 2020, right- wing protesters shoved past police and forced their way into the idaho state capital in boise, breaking windows along the way. the republican statehouse speaker in idaho actually ordered that the crowd be allowed in after they initially
forced their way past police. he said, he feared what other violence would break out of police tried to hold the line against this armed crowd. this was just a few months later, november 7th, 2020, right-wing protestersshowup in big numbers, heavily armed at the pennsylvania state capital. this was two weeks after that in virginia, right-wing protestersshowup and march in military formation, inconspicuously armed in richmond, virginia. we have the images there? thank you. that was richmond, virginia. this is two weeks after that, right-wing armed protesters showed up at the house of michigan secretary of state, joshua vinson. this was a week after that. right-wing armed protesters showed up in georgia, at the georgia state capitol, demanding
a citizens tribunal, in which they said, they wanted to do citizens trials, presumably citizens punishment for elected officials they were threatening over the georgia election results. this was less than two weeks after that, right-wing armed protesters showing up at the oregon state capital, spraying bear mace at police officers protecting the capital. they shattered gas glass doors. all of these incidents happened in 2020, that is only a partial list from that year alone. that does not cover the whole year, that is april to december, not including all of them. all of those things, all of those right-wing, violent, mostly armed incursions happen before january 6th. before the big thousand strong attack on the u.s. congress in the first week of january 2021. however surprised we may have been as a country when that happened in january 2021, the american right-wing had been showing us for months all over the country that that is the
way they plan to operate from here on out. in 2020, they sent armed mobs out to government sites in michigan, idaho, pennsylvania, oregon, arizona, georgia, you name it and they sent them into state capitals, they sent them into office of statewide officials, the homes of statewide officials, always with guns. always with force. and now, even as the national expression of this tactic, january 6, 2021, even at that has been successfully adjudicated, and an upwards of 1000 people have been charged with their participation, and the national tactic from jerry six, 2021, now we are starting to see how this looks when this american right-wing tactic gets translated into foreign languages and foreign countries
. it was only last month when german police arrested more than two dozen people who they say were planning a similar, armed right-wing attack on the german parliament. they were well armed, fairly well-connected, one former member of the parliament from a right-wing party was among them. it was thought that her access to the building as a former member might have been used to get these armed attackers inside on the day of their planned assault. now, this month, it is brazil, where trump right-wing former president bolsonaro lost his bid for reelection on the last day of october. the timeframe is almost exactly the same from when trump lost reelection in early november 2020, and his supporters attacked the u.s. capitol the first week of january. bolsonaro lost reelection the last day of october, now his supporters have attacked the national capitol the first week
of january as well. bolsonaro, like trump, said in advance of the election that the election was rigged, the only way he could lose was through fraud. like trump, bolsonaro said, the only way he would accept the election results is if he won. like trump, bolsonaro lost, and like trump, bolsonaro refused to succeed and refuse to go to his successor's inauguration, just like trump did. when bolsonaro's supporters attacked their national capitol yesterday, it was like watching a southern hemisphere summer performance of the january 6th attack. the images and videos coming out of the brazilian capitol were so uncannily similar to what we saw here at home. the probe pro bolsonaro mob attacked journalists , stole and smashed journalists equipment, just as the pro trump mob did on january 6. the bolsonaro mob use police barricades as battling rams, they attacked police officers in bloody hand-to-hand combat,
they ransacked the offices of members of the brazilian government. they took selfies, posed in government chambers, just like trump did. most nro bolsonaro what it hours before putting out a statement for peace once security forces regain control of the capitol and repelled the invasion. bolsonaro's family and supporters, just like trump's phone started claiming again it was nothing at all that attacked the capitol, it was bad guys, left-wingers, and he too dressed up like bolsonaro 's supporters, it was not really bolsonaro's supporters who did all of this ransacking and trashed the capitol. the parallels are almost so tight, it is stupid. it seems like just reading the same script in a different language. seeing english language hashtags trending online about the
attack, seeing english language signs at the attack, in a country where they speak portuguese, not english, is owes you something about how this may be more than just inspired by what happened here at our own right-wing attack at a government overthrow. there is also some important differences. for example, in brazil, they actually arrested people on the day of the attack. more than 1000 people arrested yesterday, unlike our own capitol attack january 6, in almost no one was arrested until well after it was over and most of the attackers had gone home. in brazil's case, they've got more than 1000 people in custody today from yesterday's attack. also, in brazil's case, they launched of this week after the transfer of power already happened, not before, like what happened with the trump supporters in d.c. because, the new president of brazil has already been sworn in and bolsonaro is already an ex-
president, that has all kinds of implications for the former president, bolsonaro, and if he will be responsible for what his followers just did. bizarrely, bolsonaro is in florida right now. since the day he has left office, he has been staying at a weird little suburban mansion near disney world, which he rented from a mixed martial arts fighter. okay. the state department spent today sending off request from reporters about what exactly bolsonaro is doing here? is he here to try and avoid prosecution on the numerous corruption probes, other forms of criminal investigations he is facing in brazil? the state department is spitting out questions today about what kind of thing that bolsonaro is on and what happens if in fact he faces charges at home and they will act the united states to extradite him to face trial there. we are also learning tonight that even more weirdly, the unofficial in the brazilian government, the security chief
specifically responsible for security in brazil, in their national capital, he was also in florida at the time the attack on the capitol happened this weekend. he has since been fired from the brazilian government, as of today. what was he doing in florida? why is he still there now? we've got a lot going on in the news right now. we have got the new congress finally getting seated in a process more chaotic and contentious than anything we have seen before the civil war. we got the possible prosecution of our immediate, former president looming me giving multiple active criminal investigations of human multiple jurisdictions, including one that appears to be getting quite close in the state of georgia, and some that his allies in washington seem bent on trying to disrupt, if they can do so. we have got what appears to be more politicized violence in that we have got six members of the same political party, all apparently having their homes
and offices shot up in new mexico. again, police announcing tonight for the first time that they have someone in custody who they believe may be connected to those shootings. we've got president biden at the southern border, contending with the gordian knot of immigration, its critics, and its logistics. we've got record-breaking, extreme weather, again, this time on the west coast. next week, it will be somewhere else then, because record- breaking once in a century extreme weather is a once a week occurrence in the united states. we've got a lot going on. we have a lot of challenges. on top of it all, we now need to contend with the fact that at least florida appears to be a refuge, but would be dictators for whom the violent efforts of their supporters were not quiet enough to keep them in power. florida is apparently lousy with that kind of overwrite flute right now. we need to contend with the fact that whether or not the world still sees us as a beacon of democracy, a city on the hill
. the far right on the world now sees our far right as a model for violent, massive attack against the institutions of government. as americans, we take great pride in leading the world, we do not take great pride in this. joining us now is timothy snyder, professor of history at yale university. he is the author among many books, the best seller, "on tyranny, 20 lessons." thanks for joining us tonight. >> very glad to be with you. >> in terms of how tyranny works , and how authoritarianism works , i am a little bit worried that i am seeing this through too american linens. i have seen all of this recent american presidents for the sort of thing we saw in brazil this weekend. should i be looking at this with a wider, more international lens, sort of
authoritarian movements and far right movements do all the time, should it echo january 6th so much as we should see it as a typical, right-wing, fascist, pro-authoritarianism tactic that people use all over the world? >> i think you are right to point to the similarities between january 6th and january 8th. both january 6th and january 8th, as you suggest, are about larger trends too. one of them is to discredit institutions. when you start institutions, when youshowyou can make yourself a private institution, we can break windows, when you trashed the place, what you are showing is symbolically, physically, institutions don't matter, what matters is force, what matters is will. that, of course, is one of the oldest, classic antidemocratic or anti-rule of law move. youshowdisrespect for the institutions physically, and when all that seems to be left is the possibility that a person
, a strongman, something besides these institutions should be running the country. if we get with the institutions, we get the strong hand. that logic is on display here in the u.s., but also classic logic. likewise, a lie, an alternative reality. strong belief among a lot of people is, what happened is not what happened, we did not really lose the vote, we really won the vote. that is common with respect to january 8th, but also a big 21st-century phenomenon. big lies which capture lots of people. with the recent twist, i think presumably in the u.s., it's social media bubbles which allow this to happen, i think it is an odd way in which people are storming these buildings, emerging from alternative reality, into real reality, as they do it. they are sure they are right, because they are not hearing any other voices in the social media reality where they live. >> in terms of contending with the tactical power of those things you are describing, in
terms of standing up for democracy, trying to protect democracy against these kinds of forces and attacks, how much does it matter that there is a swift account ability for the people that participate in it, and the people that organize it? one of the differences between january 8th in brazil, january 6th in the united states, is that we saw a lot of arrests in brazil, and that we have got a sitting president, the successor to bolsonaro saying, those who participated and organized it will be held accountable swiftly, and surely . what role does accountability in the legal system, the criminal justice system play in defending this off as a tactic against democracy? >> yeah, the comparison is absolutely right. i am very pleased for the brazilian government that they were able to react so quickly. it is very important that people who try to carry out the kind of fascist move are aware that the law also has force
beside it. one of the things they are trying to do is monopolize forced themselves. they are trying to say, we are the ones who control violence. we had to meet you, we had to make the law. we will do something so strange, confusing, and violent, you will not know how to react to it. there was a little bit of that on january 6th. the people, the criminals just walked away from the crime scene. that is odd. we did not see that in brazil today. it is really important. it is really important because, things like this are a test of force. the people on the far right, that is what they believe in. they believe in force. they don't meet force on the other end, they will continue. it does not mean the people defending law should be unpredictable, it means, they should be predictable, confident something like this is a crime and that the pictures of the things we are seeing, if you commit a crime, you destroy property, you just might end up on a bus
handcuffed. that is normal. the story the fascists always tell is, democracies are weak. they can't fight back. they are flabby, decadent. they think it is important to say, no, actually, we stand for something. that something we stand for is law. >> i think that when you just me too is very important about how there is a tactical impact about seeming unpredictable, chaotic, weird, strange, treating these things as crimes, among other things. accountability is an important concept. among other things, using the criminal law to respond to these things has an effect of rationalizing the experience of what the country has just been through, of imposing not only order in terms of people being held accountable, also a framework of understanding, this is a crime, something that exists within our system, it is not destroy our system. our system itself can handle things like this.
i think that rationalizing force is an important intake. >> yeah, and that we are all equal before the law. if any of us does something like this, you're asking directly about trump, it is very important for democracy not to have these superheroes or super villains judged by different vendors. it is important that executives and former executives be subject to a rule of law. once you start developing a legal theory to which they are exceptional people, that little lupo will grow bigger and bigger all the time.   timothy snyder, professor of history at yale law, the author of, among many other books, "tyranny lessons." a mandatory reading you must do before watching therachelmaddowshowin any regular way. good to see you. >> thank you.   we have got much more to get through tonight. stay with us. with us. realtor.com (in a whisper) if we use kevin's college fund, we can afford this house. the house whisperer! this house says use realtor.com
to find options within your budget. good luck young man. realtor.com to each their home. (pensive music) (footsteps crunching) (pensive music) (birds tweeting) (pensive music) (broom sweeping) - [narrator] one in five children worldwide are faced with the reality of living without food.
no family dinners, no special treats, no full bellies. all around the world, parents are struggling to feed their children. toddlers are suffering from acute malnutrition, which stunts their growth. kids are forced to drop out of school so they can help support their families. covid, conflict, inflation and climate have ignited the worst famine in our lifetime. and we're fed up. fed up with the fact that hunger robs children of their childhood. fed up with the lack of progress. fed up with the injustice. help us brighten the lives of children all over the world by visiting getfedupnow.org. for as little as $10 a month, you can join save the children as we support children and families in desperate need of our help. now is the time to get fed up and give back. when you join the cause, your $10 monthly donation can help communities in need of life-saving treatments and nutrients, prevent children from dropping out of school.
support our work with communities and governments to help children go from short-term surviving to long-term thriving. and now thanks to special government grants, every dollar you give before december 31st can multiply up to 10 times the impact. that means more food, water, medicine and help for kids around the world. you'll also receive a free tote bag to share your support for children in need. childhood without food is unimaginable. get fed up. call us now or visit getfedupnow.org today. just look around. this digital age we're living in, it's pretty unbelievable. problem is, not everyone's fully living in it. nobody should have to take a class or fill out a medical form on public wifi with a screen the size of your hand. home internet shouldn't be a luxury. everyone should have it and now a lot more people can.
so let's go. the digital age is waiting.
republicans had two things to get done in order to set up a functioning congress. the first was electing a speaker of the house. that took them almost a week and 15 humiliating tries before they finally elected kevin mccarthy speaker, just barely after midnight friday night. that was item 1. the second item on their chore list went much more quickly. tonight, republicans in the house voted for the rules by which they will run the house, now that they are in charge. this is rules for how bills get
to the floor, how they are amended, so on. you have likely heard by now that mccarthy had to agree to lots of rule changes in order to get the speaker's job. those rule changes are in effect because of the vote tonight. mccarthy had to agree, for example, to a rule that allows any one member of congress to call for a vote that could oust him as speaker. that one has received a lot of attention because it sounds very dramatic. voting at any moment to replace him. honestly, it could end up very dramatic if hard-line republicans decide they are somehow lacking in chaos and want to use the new rule to get more chaos because it makes with them, i don't know, entertained. honestly, though, i think this one is likely to be more of a paper tiger than a real threat. i say that because, congress has operated under this exact rule before. actually, it operated under this rule for decades and the house got along just fine with that rule in place. you never know, things are only
unprecedented until they happen. [ laughter ] we will see. i think that rule change, despite the attention it has had, might be more of a symbolic threat than real threat. moving to things to worry about, also the republican agreement to cap all federal spending at level set two years ago. this one could conceivably have big consequences for the federal budget and therefore operations of the federal government, including military. that is only if they hold themselves to it. this spending cap arrangement is basically a handshake deal to me not a binding rule. there is nothing on the republicans to actually following that rule. again, that sort of want to watch, but they could eat their way out of it, if they wanted to. they've received a lot of attention so far. there is another provision in this deal i think it's kind of a sleeper, is worth more notice that it has received so far. the provision is a part of a
new rules package that the republicans are agreeing to, which would take a committee to investigate what they call the weaponization of the federal government, a committee expected to be chaired by trump republican, jim jordan. the republicans claim, this committee would have the power to oversee not just the justice department and at the, the way they are usually overseen by congress to me they claim, this committee would have the ability to oversee ongoing criminal investigations being conducted by the justice department. ongoing criminal investigations like say, the ongoing criminal investigations into the january 6th attack, when or the ongoing investigation into president donald trump. one member of congress who says, he should be considered for a spot on this committee is scott., a trump republican whose phone was recently seized by the justice department as a part of their investigation into the january 6th attack. this one, as i say, i think is the sleeper. if republicans do go through with this committee to try to
create a new system of oversight of the justice department, that includes their ongoing criminal investigation, we can't expect the justice department would just roll over and go along with it. we would expect the justice department would presumably go to court, if need be, to protect their investigation. what would happen then? what would happen in two branches of our government went to war over active investigations into a former president that could actually put him in prison? what if it gets left to the pro trump super majority on the supreme court to settle that conflict? as we said, the rule changes, we will see how that plays out in terms of the most serious threats in terms of regular order and small democratic governments. this effort to try to get members of congress into the criminal justice system in this specific way, that, by my bed, really the one to watch.
lots more to get to tonight, stay with us. in so intense, yod miss out on family time. the virus that causes shingles is likely already inside of you. if you're 50 years or older, ask your doctor or pharmacist about shingles. everyone remembers the moment they heard... “you have cancer.” how their world stopped and when they found a way to face it. for some, this is where their keytruda story begins. keytruda - a breakthrough immunotherapy that may treat certain cancers. one of those cancers is advanced nonsquamous, non-small cell lung cancer where keytruda is approved to be used with certain chemotherapies as your first treatment if you do not have an abnormal “egfr” or “alk” gene. keytruda helps your immune system fight cancer but can also cause your immune system to attack healthy parts of your body. this can happen during or after treatment and may be severe and lead to death.
see your doctor right away if you have cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, diarrhea, severe stomach pain or tenderness, severe nausea or vomiting, headache, light sensitivity, eye problems, irregular heartbeat, extreme tiredness, constipation, dizziness or fainting, changes in appetite, thirst, or urine, confusion or memory problems, muscle pain or weakness, fever, rash, itching, or flushing. these are not all the possible side effects. tell your doctor about all your medical conditions, including immune system problems, or if you've had an organ transplant, had or plan to have a stem cell transplant, or have had radiation to your chest area or a nervous system condition. today, keytruda is fda-approved to treat 16 types of advanced cancer. and is being studied in hundreds of clinical trials exploring ways to treat even more types of cancer. it's tru. keytruda from merck. see the different types of cancer keytruda is approved to treat at keytruda.com, and ask your doctor if keytruda can be part of your story.
there are some things that go better...together. like your workplace benefits... and retirement savings. with voya, considering all your financial choices together... can help you be better prepared for unexpected events. voya. well planned. well invested. well protected. - hi, i'm steve. - i'm lea. and we live in north pole, alaska. - i'm a retired school counselor. [lea] i'm a retired art teacher. [steve] we met online about 10 years ago. as i got older, my hearing was not so good so i got hearing aids. my vision was not as good as it used to be, got a change in prescription. but the this missing was my memory. i saw a prevagen commercial and i thought, "that makes sense."
i just didn't have to work so hard to remember things. prevagen. healthier brain. better life.
today, after eight months of work, we learned a special grand jury in fulton county, florida has finished its work. this was a special grand jury impaneled last may to review evidence and hear testimony about the efforts to pressure elections officials in the state of georgia and try to
falsify the election results in georgia after the 2020 presidential election. as i said, the special grand jury has been at work or call eight months. what they were working toward was not a set of indictment or any sort of public facing action, or action taken in court we can all witness heard what they were working toward over those eight months was a report, a report to the fulton county prosecutor, da funny willis, summarizing their findings in terms of the evidence, and recommending to her whether or not they believe criminal charges should be filed against anyone based on what they learned about the behavior that took place in georgia right after the election. we don't yet know if that report will be made public. the judge overseeing the special grand jury notes in his dissolving of the mail today once that report to be made public. the final decision will ultimately be made by the judge. he set a hearing on that issue for 2 weeks from tomorrow. while that report has not yet
been made public, we don't know what level or what timeframe it will be made public, fulton county district attorney willis and her office, they have the report themselves now and there is no reason they can't act on the special grand jury's recommendation to them now. da willis is free to act on those, regardless of what we the public can see in the future or now in terms of the special grand jury report. whether she will take that to the grand jury to seek an indictment remains to be seen. an indictment will include, president donald trump, which will make history, because no former president has been charged with a crime. that remains to be seen. we do know it is in the da's hands now. joining us now, michael moore, u.s. district attorney for the middle new jersey. thank you for being here. first, let me just ask if i explained that correctly?
the special grand jury the aim of their investigation over these past eight months has been a report that they submitted as of today. their work is done, they are dissolved as an entity and those rumors will go home? >> that is exactly right. remember, this grand jury had no authority to issue an indictment, even if the da had act for one. this was simply a chance for her to use the grand jury process a little differently than we typically do here in the state of georgia, but it allowed her to subpoena witnesses, evidence, to get folks on the record who might be reluctant to come in, use the subpoena power to give their testimony to investigate the case more fully. you just don't see these cases more often. that is what separates federal grand jury who have inherently investigative powers with the state grand jury system. now, she will make a decision on whether or not she thinks there is sufficient evidence, whether or not this special grand jury has found probable cause for her to move forward
and as a criminal drug grand jury to find probable cause as she seeks an indictment against trump, or anybody else. >> in terms of what we, the public, will see about this process, i was a little bit confused today, trying to figure out if there is any relationship between the decision about how much of the special grand jury's report might be made public, and body willis's decision as to whether or not she will bring any indict. are those two totally separate tracks that don't have anything to do with each other, or is there a relationship between two of those considerations? >> they are really unique and separate tracks. the district attorney by a large operates at the council of the grand jury. very likely she and her staff helped write this report. they certainly know what is in it. you are right, she can move forward now if she decides to do that. the idea typically with the grand jury is the process is secret, because the people who ultimately are not charged, if she makes the decision not to
charge them, does not ruin the rest of their life because of a record of something they may or may not have done or said in a public report somewhere. the idea of the report coming out is something a judge will have to decide, even though a special grand jury has recommended that. he will make a decision on whether or not it is appropriate this time. it is unusual because in georgia, typically, investigative reports, this type of information does not become public, because we have an open records act. one of the exceptions to having open records is an ongoing criminal prosecution. that may be one reason that he keeps the record field for some time. that also helps her. she has got a little of a double-edged sword. that is, she may want the report out for political coverage, at the same time, she may be making a decision not to exactly follow the recommendation of a special grand jury. if she makes that decision, she will have to answer for her choice versus what these vessel purpose grand jury had recommended after their eight months or so of work. >> in terms of waiting for a decision, does not sound like
anything happening in court is going to constrain her come in terms of her timeframe. she will make a decision now in her office as to whether or not she thinks an indictment is appropriate, given these recommendations, given everything her office knows about the evidence. she is basically free to do that on her own timeframe, barring statute of limitations concern? >> she is absolutely free. if she wanted to call in a grand jury tomorrow, she could do it. she has been free all along. she has never had to use a special purpose grand jury to get an and i hear she can run this to the regular criminal process, go through a grand jury and as to issue an indictment. what she did, she gathered more information. she can read the reports and decide to already have the indictments drafted before this report came out. she is under no obligation at this time to wait. in the regular course of business, the criminal grand jury is meeting and she decides
to present an indictment, then with something between a car tracker and drug dealer, whatever she decides to do, she can do. whether or not there is probable cause to move forward -- this is the beginning of a normal criminal process. so much about this has been abnormal. so much about the administration was abnormal. this is the beginning of what would be a routine criminal process where a prosecutor looks at her criminal case and make the decision of whether or not they will present evidence to a grand jury to move forward to a trial. that is really where we are now. we are at the start of a race. we are not near the finish line. >> michael moore, former u.s. attorney for the middle district of georgia. i know today is an hall all hands on deck tonight, all hands on deck in georgia. thank you, i really appreciate your time, particularly tonight. >> a great pleasure to be with you. >> more news ahead, stay with us. with us. don't take entresto with an ace inhibitor or aliskiren, or if you've had angioedema with an ace or arb.
the most serious side effects are angioedema, low blood pressure, kidney problems, or high blood potassium. ask your doctor about entresto.

the promise of america is freedom, equality. but right now, those pillars of our democracy are fragile
and our rights are under attack. reproductive rights. voting rights. the right to make your own choices and to have your voice heard. we must act now. we, the people, can make america beautiful. and we can't do it without you. we are the american civil liberties union. will you join us? call or go to myaclu.org and become an aclu guardian of liberty for just $19 a month. for over 100 years, the aclu has fought for everyone to have a voice and equal justice. and we will never stop because we the people, means all of us. so please call or go online to myaclu.org to become a guardian of liberty today.
when attorney general merrick garland just before thanksgiving appointed a special counsel to oversee federal criminal investigations related to former president donald trump, one of the first things garland did, excuse me, one of the first things special counsel jack smith did, was issued subpoenas to election officials in states where trump tried to overturn the 2020 election results. the subpoenas appeared to be aimed at trump's fake collector scheme, the scheme by which
they had people sign forged the documents, attending that trump had won those states, even though he did not. once special counsel jack smith finishes his investigation and makes a decision on charges, if any, we will find out if there will be fit criminal consequences for the fake electors themselves, the people who signed those forged papers in seven states around the country. federal charges aren't the only possibility here. we know, for example, that the fake electors in georgia have been targets of the fulton county district attorney's investigation. now that her special grand jury has wrapped up its work today, we may soon find out whether district attorney willis will pursue indictments under georgia state criminal law against those baked fake electors in that state. of the seven states in which the fake electors have moved forward, georgia had been the only one, the only state where we knew of an active state- level criminal investigation into what the electors did. it had been the only one, until
now. it's got kind of lost a missed the drama of the chaotic house speaker about late last week. the attorney general in michigan just made big news. she enough on friday her office, the michigan attorney general's office, is reopening its criminal investigation into the michigan fake trump electors. michigan attorney general dana nessel announced a year ago, her office has started an investigation into the fake electors. she believes that crimes have been committed. she also said at the same time, she would refer to get the case to federal prosecutors because she saw what the fake electors in her state date as a part of a multistate conspiracy that would be better handled by the feds. that announcement from attorney general nessel was a year ago. now, a year later she is basically said, she is done waiting for the feds to act. now that the january 6 investigation has released his report about the new information of the fake electors scheme, attorney general nessel says , she will
not wait any longer. she will reopen her state investigation into michigan's fake electors. she says, she does not know what the federal justice department plans to do with the evidence her office referred to them, but quote, there is clear evidence to support charges against those 16 false electors in our state. as attorney general nessel says, we don't know the status of the federal investigation and whether any of the fake electors will face the legal consequences there at the federal level. now we know, it is at least two states, georgia and michigan where we are awaiting potential state charges for the fake electors in that scheme. type 2 diabetes? discover the ozempic® tri-zone. in my ozempic® tri-zone, i lowered my a1c, cv risk, and lost some weight. in studies, the majority of people reached an a1c under 7 and maintained it. ozempic® lowers the risk
of major cardiovascular events such as stroke, heart attack, or death in adults also with known heart disease. and you may lose weight. adults lost up to 14 pounds. ozempic® isn't for people with type 1 diabetes. don't share needles or pens, or reuse needles. don't take ozempic® if you or your family ever had medullary thyroid cancer, or have multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 2, or if allergic to it. stop ozempic® and get medical help right away if you get a lump or swelling in your neck, severe stomach pain, or an allergic reaction. serious side effects may include pancreatitis. gallbladder problems may occur. tell your provider about vision problems or changes. taking ozempic® with a sulfonylurea or insulin may increase low blood sugar risk. side effects like nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea may lead to dehydration, which may worsen kidney problems. ask your health care provider about the ozempic® tri-zone. you may pay as little as $25.
for adults with generalized myasthenia gravis who are positive for acetylcholine receptor antibodies, it may feel like the world is moving without you. but the picture is changing, with vyvgart. in a clinical trial, participants achieved improved daily abilities with vyvgart added to their current treatment. and vyvgart helped clinical trial participants achieve reduced muscle weakness. vyvgart may increase the risk of infection. in a clinical study, the most common infections were urinary tract and respiratory tract infections. tell your doctor if you have a history of infections or if you have symptoms of an infection. vyvgart can cause allergic reactions. the most common side effects include respiratory tract infection, headache, and urinary tract infection. picture your life in motion with vyvgart. a treatment designed using a fragment of an antibody. ask your neurologist if vyvgart could be right for you.
business can happen anytime, anywhere. so help yours thrive and stay connected with the comcast business complete connectivity solution. it's the largest, fastest, reliable network. advanced gig speed wifi. and cyberthreat protection. starting at just $49.99 a month. plus, you can save up to 60% a year when you add comcast business mobile. or, ask how to get up to a $750 prepaid card. complete connectivity. one solution, for wherever business takes you. comcast business. powering possibilities.
related to january 6th. that's a very hard conviction to get, historically, but they got in the oath keepers, case and there is now more people facing those same charges, namely members of the proud boys. their trial is expected to