by allowing people to conceal, carry anywhere they want to. law enforcement was against this. but my response to that is it's madness. it's absolutely madness to put more guns on our streets, to exacerbate the problem even more. >> there are people who say, particularly i think people that are sort of committed to this kind of gun maximalist view, that what you are doing right now as a kind of blame shifting, kind of a scapegoating, which is democrats and big democrats cities, there are the ones who have a problem with gun crime, or crime more broadly. and they're trying to push blame off on gun manufacturers, that are a, or law-abiding citizens. what do you say to that? >> mayors don't have time for that crap, right? 255 mayors from across the country, including republicans, signed this letter, urging senators to take action, urging them to stop the violence, to help us, give us the tools, as mayors, to reduce the violence in our cities. look, mayors across the country are doing what we can.
innovating things like the city of kansas city is doing, sowing among gun manufacturers here. and in cincinnati, we're working with atf, department of justice, to use data back science, in order to take implicit bias out of it, and put more violent criminals behind bars. we're also sending mental health professionals to nonviolent 9-1-1 calls. but we can't do this alone. we need state action. we need federal action. because this is a federal problem. you know, all the rhetoric, all the blaming, that's for d.c.. mayors have to drive results in our cities, and republican and democratic mayors are saying, we need help from the federal government and from our capitals, to take guns off the street, not put more guns on the street. since therei mayor, aftab pureval, thank you very much for your time tonight, sir. >> thank you. >> that does it for all in on this monday night.rachelmaddowshowstarts right now. good evening,rachel. good evening, chris, thank you my friend. much appreciated.
>> you bet. >> thank you at-home for joining us this hour, happy to have you here. the new u.s. ambassador to ukraine is going to be our guest, here live tonight, this is gonna be her first live interview since taking her post. reopening the u.s. embassy in kyiv. he, have of course, a city that is now newly-being targeted with missiles by the russian military. heck of a welcome back to the city for the u.s. embassy, but ambassador bridget brink is going to be joining us for any sluice of interview from kyiv. in just a few minutes. i hope you will be there for that. back in 2010, the u.s. justice department arrested and indicted nine people, win michigan and ohio, and indiana. nine people who are all members of a group that called itself a militia. the indictment, back in 2010 charge that these nine people intended to murder a member of law enforcement, possibly the
family of a law enforcement officer as well. and then, when lots of other law enforcement officers would come from all around the country to be there for the big public funeral that would result, this militia decided that they would mount a big attack on the funeral, to kill as many law enforcement officers from all across the country as possible, and then that larger attack they planned on the funeral, they planned not to just use guns, but ieds. this was 2010, there are biden had been years of extensive coverage in u.s. media about ieds, improvised explosive devices, being used to devastating effects against u.s. troops in iraq and afghanistan, and in particular iranian support of militia groups in iraq, we're using a sort of enhanced ied against u.s. troops, again, to absolutely devastating effects. it was an enhanced ied, which
used kind of a shaved projectile which allow these improvised bombs to penetrate armor. they were called an explosive leak formed projectile, it was a sort of super ied. and in 2010, these militia guys in michigan and ohio and indiana, according to prosecutors, prosecutor said in their indictment in 2010, that these militia guys exchanged information about, not just ieds, but how to build those kind of ieds specifically. they're the kind of explosive lee formed projectiles, that were being used against u.s. troops by iranian-backed militias in the iraq war. they exchanged information about how to build those kinds of ieds, they amassed the materials they would need to build those kinds of ieds. also, they could mount what they hoped would be a catastrophic large-scale attack on law enforcement, and a high-profile public law enforcement funeral of a law enforcement member they intended to kill. they hoped the attack on that
funeral, and these ensuing casualties among the u.s. law enforcement, would be terrifying to destabilizing enough in the united states, that would basically set off a war here. a war that they intended to win. in addition to the bombs, the ied part of their plan. they also had a michigan, they are fully automatic machine gun, and lots of other weapons. hundreds of thousands of rounds of ammunition, that they had amassed and they had trained with to plan for this attack, that they hoped would set it off, in a large scale kind of way in the united states. this group of people was arrested in 2010, and there are charged in federal court, they were specifically charged with seditious conspiracy. they were all acquitted. all of them. they even got all of their guns back, after they were acquitted. except for the machine gun, that, is they got all of their
guns back. that was in 2010, the indictment happened in 2012, they were all acquitted. prior to that, it was 1988. seditious conspiracy charge, brought against 14 members of a white power group, that had amassed enough firepower to hold their own against a fairly considerable army. they had multiple machine guns, and rocket launchers, and anti tank weapons. they had grenades, they had land mines. and several of the defendants in the 1988 trial were already known to have taken part in murder, and in a big counterfeiting operation in which they are making counterfeit u.s. currency. also, in armed robberies that were all designed to support and fund their overall plan to use terrorism and violence to sow destabilized the united states, that ultimately a war, they were hoping a race war
with breakout, and the u.s. government would be overthrown. prosecutors presented evidence that this group, in 1988, had detailed plans that they had shared amongst themselves, to assassinate a federal judge, as well as federal law enforcement officials. they even had plans to poison the water supply in major cities, in order to cause mass murder that way. that trial was brought in fort smith arkansas, in 1988. there were 14 of these white power activists, they were acquitted, all of them. and just like the guys in the michigan case, the white power guys got their guns back to, after the trial, at least the ones who weren't already imprisoned for something else, they got their guns back. sedition is a crime in the united states. seditious conspiracy and sedition are crimes, they're very serious crimes. but they are also crimes that have proven to be very, very
difficult to get convictions for a trial. and, it's an even more, i guess, high stakes thing than just the possibility of failing to get a conviction when you prosecute one of these cases. because, it turns, out we know from recent history, when you try to prosecute for the people for sedition, and the prosecution fails, and the defendants are acquitted, these defendants tend to take that as vindication of what they were doing. in the fort smith arkansas trial, for example, the one that was a 1988. the defendants walked out of that courtroom absolutely triumphant that they had been acquitted, one of them told the new york times that day, zogg has suffered a terrible defeat here today. by z og, he meant the zionist occupation government, because because it was the jews that they were really after. one of the key witnesses in that trial, later went on to
commit mass murder at a jewish community center in overland park, kansas. sedition is a crime. sedition is a serious, crime one with a 20-year prison sentence. seditious conspiracy is a conspiracy to use force to stop the you no u.s. government from carrying out its laws, or to overthrow the government. sedition, and seditious conspiracy are crimes for obvious reasons. in modern american life, the u.s. justice department has had a heck of a time actually securing convictions when they charge people with that crime. and all of us who can observe that modern history, know that, you can just see that in the history of modern prosecutions, there are all of these incredibly dangerous people charged with incredibly terrible things, with incredibly damning evidence brought against them, where nevertheless acquitted, because the crime is so hard to prove in court. we can all observe that, just a citizens, seeing when these high profile sort of hair curling prosecutions arrive.
we can all see it. but you know who can really see it? prosecutors are you work for the u.s. doj. they really know. acutely. how hard it is to get a prosecution in a sedition case. they know it even more acutely than we do, because they acquittals in those big, high profile, failed sedition cases, those loom very large in the history of high stakes, highly charged failed prosecutions by the u.s. department of justice. federal prosecutors know this history very well. they therefore no, not to bring sedition charges lightly. and yet, here we are. in january of this year, u.s. justice department brought seditious conspiracy charges against 11 members of the oath keepers, a right-wing pro trump paramilitary group that allegedly played a key role and the violent attack on the u.s. capitol, to try to keep trump in power on january 6th of last
year. since that sedition indictment in january, three different members of the oath keepers have pled guilty, and started cooperating with police. in april of this year there's another guilty plea another cooperation deal with a member of a different right-wing pro trump paramilitary group, the so-called proud boys. and now, today, five members of the proud boys have, themselves, been hit with seditious conspiracy charges. i know this may sort of feel like a continuation of that earlier story from january, but i cannot underscore how strongly enough how unusual it is, and what's a big deal it is at the u.s. justice department for sedition charges, for seditious conspiracy charges to be charged by the u.s. justice department. in modern times, sedition charges are rare enough, and a risky enough prosecution effort that there are literally books written about every modern case
in which sedition it has been charged by the government, because it is such a big deal when they do, it is so rare and it is so high stakes. i mean, if you are under the age of 100 and you are going to work as a federal prosecutor for the u.s. justice department, it would be a pretty good bet that you would never see this particular charge brought against anyone, ever, in your entire career. and yet, now, here we are. 16 people from two different paramilitary groups, charged into difference addition indictments in the space of six months. the oath keepers seditious conspiracy indictment brought in january, now the proud boys seditious conspiracy indictment brought today. both related to the january 6th violent attack on the u.s. capitol, to try to overthrow the u.s. government, to try to prevent president biden from taking office, the fact the justice department prosecutors have brought these cases, knowing the history of how difficult it is to secure a conviction in cases like this, the fact that they have brought these cases against two different groups over the course of six months, implies a
certain confidence on the part of the justice department. about what a good case they've got. i really do think that by the justice department's own history, prosecutors are sort of hardwired not to use these particular charges, unless they really feel like they've got it dead to rights. now they've done it, they did in january, they did it again today. and this dramatic decision by the justice department comes, that what is turning out to be a very dramatic time, right? the congressional investigation into the january 6th attack, that is separate and apart from anything that the justice department is doing. the congressional investigation to the january 6th attack, they have no power to prosecute anyone. the most they can do in terms of, putting behind bars is they can refer a case to the justice department, for them to potentially prosecute. but there is no guarantee the justice department would follow their lead on it. the congressional investigation into the january 6th attack is
completely separate and apart from whatever the justice department is doing on its own steam. that congressional investigation is going to hurt hold its first public televised hearing this week, thursday night, so the public can see what they have discovered about what happened on january 6th. as first reported in the new york times tonight, and then confirmed by nbc news, one of the live witnesses who is expected to testify at the hearing on thursday night is a filmmaker, a documentary filmmaker who was embedded with the proud boys, with this parliamentary group today was charged with seditious conspiracy. this filmmaker was apparently embedded with them in the days and weeks leading up to january six, including on the night of january 5th, when he filmed this meeting in a d.c. parking garage, between the head of the proud boys, the guy in the baseball hat on the right side of your screen there, is now indicted for seditious conspiracy. and the goofy guy in the big hat who is facing his back to
us here, he's the head of the oath keepers. he's also indicted for seditious conspiracy. these guys won two different pro trump right-wing parliamentary groups. they apparently met together in this parking garage, seen in this footage the night before the january 6th attack. the filmmaker who shot this footage is reportedly going to thursday night's primetime january 6th investigation hearing. >> the new york times also reporting tonight that another parami witness is expected -- who's expected in that hearing once they tonight is a female u.s. capitol police officer, who was assaulted during the attack on the capitol on january six. she's actually believed to be the first police officer who day.physically attacked that she was reportedly attacked within moments of having some sort of communication, some sort of confrontation with one of the proud boys, who's now been indicted for seditious conspiracy. so, she's expected to testify thursday night, as is a filmmaker, who was with the
proud boys, in the days and weeks leading up to the attack including the night before the attack, when the leaders of these two parliamentary groups planned that. >> the genesis investigation in congress, again, it's proceeding. and that's about toshowits work to the public. but they're proceeding independent of whatever is happening at the justice department. in terms of what's happening at the justice department, we have a lot of new information about what's happening there, in terms of criminal investigations and potential criminal prosecutions. more than 800 defendants, why literally participated in the attack on the capital have been charged already. but in addition to those 800, there are more than 350 other people, who are pictured on the fbi's website, even today, committing alleged crimes, including assaulting police officers. people who are still wanted. more than 350 people still wanted by the fbi beyond 800 plus who have already been charged. but we now know that it is not just the grand jury, or grand
jurors who are going bringing their indictment and i let's of individual participants in the mob attack. there were apparently, multiple federal grand juries who are at work here. there is the one that sent a subpoena to trump white house official, peter navarro last week, for example. and there is the one that is sending out subpoenas and taking interviews related to the scheme to send fake electors for trump, to washington. so the electoral college would count trump as winning in states that he actually lost. the prosecutors who are investigating that part of the scheme, working with a grand jury to investigate that part of the scheme, have reported that they've spoken with state officials in georgia about the effort by trump and in his circle, to pressure georgia state officials, to change results there, to make it look like trump one, when in fact the last. that pressure on georgia state officials of course already a matter of criminal investigation in the state of georgia, but by fulton county district attorney, fani willis. that grand jury and in that state, criminal investigation, is now handing out subpoenas, and starting to hear from
witnesses. and their state level criminal investigation. but on top of that, we now know that federal investigators are looking into the georgia matter as well, and interviewing potential witnesses to that and. so, we are about to -- we, the public, are about to get a bigshowyour work moment from the january 6th investigation that's being conducted in congress. they have spoken with over 1000 witnesses. they have reviewed more than 140,000 different documents. we are told to expect not only a sort of multi media presentation about what they have found, but also live witnesses. this first hearing from the january 6th investigation is going to be this thursday. our coverage of it, this thursday night, here on msnbc, will start at 7 pm eastern. we're expected to begin at 8 pm eastern. we also got confirmation from the investigation today that their second hearing will happen next week. they will start morning hearings next week. we've been told to expect that there would be a series of
these hearings for the january 6th investigation, some in primetime, some in the morning. the primetime one is this thursday. the morning one is starting next week. we're gonna speak with nbc news presidential historian, michael beschloss, in just a few minutes tonight. about the history of this moment, how rare the sort of thing is. how fraught it is to have this congressional investigation going to the public with its findings, with primetime hearings at the same time that the doj is now putting out these major charges against alleged coconspirators. the question of the president and his personal potential relationship to the seditious conspiracy indictment is of course one that looms very large now, given what has been reported in open source reporting about the presidents potential connection, to both the proud boys and oath keepers, and their actions on january six. both of those organizations have been hit with seditious, sedition charges. we'll talk with michael beschloss about that, coming up tonight.
but i will tell you just logistically, one thing to note about these hearings, in terms of making your plans to watch the primetime hearing, this week, and to stay up on these hearings, as they continue through next week. we, of course, we'll be covering the genuine sucks hearings, live, right here on msnbc. as i mentioned, the first prime time will start at 7 pm, this thursday night. i will be helping anchor that coverage, joined by many of my colleagues, including chris hayes, nicole wallace, joy reid, lawrence, already, lots of different folks from nbc. it will be a team effort in covering the january 6th hearings, starting with our special coverage this thursday night at 7 pm eastern. but i also wanna let you know, on top of that, not only are we gonna be airing the hearings live here on msnbc as they happen, so you can plan ahead. i want to also to know that all of the hearings are also gonna be available on the broadcast feed for thisshow. the hearings themselves and the hearing analysis that we're gonna be doing on msnbc, you
can get the audio of that in its entirety, and for free, on the podcast feet of myshow. so if you are in subscribe to therachelmaddowshowpodcast, thank you, you don't have to do anything else. if you don't already subscribe, just go to whatever podcast providers you use, type my name,maddow, and to the search bar, subscribe to therachelmaddowshow. it's all free. you will find at that broadcast feet, we will have all of our normal content. the audio of thisshow, for example. but also, once the hearing starts, that's where we're going to post free, in its entirety, the audio of all of the january six committee hearings, plus the pre-analysis, and the post analysis, when those hearings happen. boy, there's a lot going on right now! we've got a lot still to get to tonight. our live interview from kyiv with a new u.s. ambassador to ukraine's coming up right after this. we've got a lot to get to. stay with us tonight. good to have you here. od to have you here.
[zoom call] ...pivot... work bye. vacation hi! book with priceline. 'cause when you save more, you can “no way!” more. no wayyyy. no waaayyy! no way! [phone ringing] hm. no way! no way! priceline. every trip is a big deal. finding the perfect designer isn't easy. but, at upwork, we found her. she's in austin between a dog named klaus and her favorite shade of green. it's actually salem clover. and you can find her right now on upwork.com when the world is your workforce, finding the perfect project manager, designer, developer, or whomever you may need... tends to fall right into place. find top-rated talent who can start today on upwork.com as a business owner, your bottom line
who can start today is always top of mind. so start saving by switching to the mobile service designed for small business: comcast business mobile. flexible data plans mean you can get unlimited data or pay by the gig. all on the most reliable 5g network. with no line activation fees or term contracts... saving you up to $500 a year. and it's only available to comcast business internet customers. so boost your bottom line by switching today. comcast business. powering possibilities.™ i've lived in san francisco for 20 years. i'm raising my kids here. this city is now less safe for all of us. chesa boudin is failing to hold repeat offenders accountable. he prosecuted zero fentanyl drug dealing cases, even though nearly 500 people have died of overdoses. i'm voting yes on h to recall chesa boudin now. we can't wait one more day when people are dying on our streets. >> it was less than three weeks


ago, the united states we opened our embassy in kyiv, and the capital of ukraine. in february, just before russia invaded ukraine, our embassy and all stuff moved west, away from russia, hopefully out of harm's way, so the western ukrainian city of lviv. but after ukrainian forces successfully blocked russia's attempt to seize kyiv, and russian forces pulled back from kyiv, three weeks ago, the u.s. decided to move the embassy back, back to the capital, and
the flight was once again hoisted over the u.s. embassy there. because the u.s. embassy has reopened in kyiv, it was worrying, presumably, for the u.s. government this weekend, when russia started shooting into kyiv again. russia, this weekend, fired missiles into kyiv for the first time in over a month. the kremlin says, missiles were targeting weapons shipments from abroad. ukraine says the missiles hit a train repair facility. but regardless, for the u.s. government, a new attack by the russian federation on ukraine's capital city raises questions about the safety of the u.s. embassy and the diplomats there, now that the embassy has moved back to ukraine's capital. concerns about the embassy in kyiv, of course, include include concerns for the safety of the brand-new u.s. ambassador to ukraine, we just arrived there a week ago. she is the first senate confirmed ambassador to ukraine, since former president trump ousted the last one in 2019,
under circumstances that eventually led to one of the times former president trump was impeached. that russia's initial ambitions when they started the war in ukraine really seem to be that they were gonna invade and conquer the whole country. ukrainian resistance and their defense of kyiv appeared to flail that black, and it really seemed like russia was comprehensively scaling back its ambitions, to focus just on eastern ukraine. with russian missile strikes on kyiv, yesterday, though, is that a live issue again? we do not know. but the fighting in the eastern part of ukraine right now is no -- it is by all accounts incredibly intense. yesterday, ukraine's president, volodymyr zelenskyy, visited the frontline of those battles in eastern ukraine. he made a dangerous trip into a city that's under heavy bombardment, and is at risk of being surrounded by russian forces. he went there in person, to support the frontline forces on the ukrainian military. volodin as a lynskey handed out medals to ukrainian soldiers who are fighting russian
soldiers, street by street, and in bombed out cities, where control seems to be seesawing day-by-day, which brings ukrainian and russian forces. and of course, the stakes of who controls what, our high. russia is taking the areas that's captured in the east and south of ukraine. they've been moving to try and make those parts of ukraine de facto part of russia. they've given out russian passports to local ukrainian residents, as if they are russian citizens now. they've made the ruble unofficial currency in those areas, as if it's part of ukraine is now part of russia, and therefore trades in the rubble. they put up russian flags on the street, signs of replaced ukrainian tv channels with russian state tv broadcasts. they're acting as if those parts of eastern and southern ukraine are part of russia already. today, that new u.s. ambassador to ukraine met with ukrainian defense minister, she told him, quote, we will increase the unprecedented level of u.s. assistance. we will do everything possible to strengthen ukraine on the
battlefield. joining us now is the unit new united states ambassador to ukraine, she joins us live from the ukrainian capital city of kyiv. bridget brink, i think you've been here, i appreciate you taking the, time especially given what time of night is right now in ukraine. >>rachel, thanks so much, it's great to be with you. >> let me ask you first about the decision to move the embassy back to kyiv, obviously that is something that the ukrainian government wanted, and that some other countries have done, united states have done this just within the past few weeks. you are just there within the past week. is it physical danger to yourself and other u.s. personnel to have the embassy there, particularly with those missiles that we saw russians shoot into the ukrainian capital this weekend? >> well, i would just say, diplomacy is risky. we are here because we think it's important, it's in our
national strategic interest to try to ensure that borders are not changed by force, and to do that job, in part, you need people on the ground. so, myself and my team were very aware of the risks, that are at play. we very much tried to mitigate them. president biden, secretary blinken, we all have total confidence in efforts that they are making to mitigate those risks, and we tried to do, it and i try to do it myself as ambassador. but, when i heard on the hill during my confirmation hearings was from congress, was a lot of interest in getting us back. i personally wanted to get back, and the president wanted us to be present. iam proud to be here with a group of very patriotic americans, and to represent the u.s. foreign service, the diplomatic arm of our government, we don't fight with weapons, we fight with ideas and words. my number one job here is to try to help ukraine defend itself.
>> in terms of ukraine's ability to defend itself, i think that so many americans who have been horrified by the invasion, and who are supportive of the people of ukraine and what they are contending with in this war, i live in western new england, in multiple states driving around this country, i see people putting out ukrainian flags and from their houses. not without their political messages or anything, just support for ukraine. i think because there is so much support for ukraine in the united states, i worry that, perhaps the u.s. government, that perhaps the u.s. media is telling the american people what they want to hear about ukraine's likelihood of succeeding in this effort. we are more interested in hearing about ukrainian bravery, and ukrainian success, and the russians falling short of expectations, then we are in hearing news tothe contrary. is that fair to worry about that? do you have a different view of how things are going in the war,
now these 100 days into it? >> yeah, that's actually a great question, there is no doubt that due to ukrainian bravery, and ingenuity, the russians have had to pull back and refocus on the east and the south of the country, it's amazing, it's remarkable. it's a david and goliath story, that is in real life. and the president is incredibly brave, and is leading his people in this resistance to this unprovoked aggression. but also, the average person on the ground is resisting as well. so i think that, what's happening now in the east is the fighting, as your intro said, is very close, very difficult. ukrainians are losing a lot of soldiers, every day, it's why it's so important that we work with partners and allies, to continue to provide as much security assistance as they need, to prevail, to defend
themselves. and that's what i'm doing on the ground, and working with, of course, washington and then other allies and partners that are on the ground here in kyiv. they, yes i guess what i'd say to the american people, and i've felt this overwhelming support, just for our presence, and for a team that is here, for our people. when i was back in, america i felt it obviously from the administration, but also from congress, and also in from the midwest, and i felt it from friends and family, that i grew up with. so that's great, i would just say this is not going to be easy, and it's going to take some time. and i think it's now very difficult in the east, and it's now more important than ever that we continue to offer this support. >> with the russian federation handing out russian passports to ukrainians who live in the east, with vladimir putin recognizing the purported independence of parts of
eastern and southeastern ukraine with russian occupying forces, telling ukrainians they need to trade in the rubble and replacing ukrainian education and media outlets with those that are derived from russia. it does seem like putin is trying to make the russian takeover of large parts of ukraine the de facto way of life, in that part of the country. president zelenskyy has talked about one fifth of ukrainian territory now been occupied by russian forces. is it the position of the u.s. government, that any diplomatic solution, any potential cease-fire has to respect the original integrity of ukraine's borders, or is it possible that ukraine is going to lose large swaths of its territory in negotiations to end the war? >> well, you've got it exactly right. this is part of the russian playbook, in terms of giving
out passports, and incorporating parts of countries into russia. this is what has happened in transnistria, up kenosha, among other places in this part of the world. it's not surprising, the united states as long recognized ukraine. ukraine, within its international borders. we also have, we consider crimea is an integral part of ukraine. we are let the ukrainians decide when or how they will help negotiate, as president zelenskyy, said and biden affirmed, all wars and in some kind of negotiation. we are supporting ukraine, as it fights right now to defend itself. >> how important are the new advanced weapons that president biden has approved sending to ukraine? i think from those of us who don't come from about a terry background, we hear about anti
tank weapons, we hear about artillery and howitzers. we are now hearing about guided rocket systems. as the type of weapons, and the amount of weaponry that the united states sends continues to expand, is there something that we civilians should understand in terms of the enhanced capability that we are offering the cranes by giving them these more advanced weapons that are new leo arriving now? >> well, they are very important, and it really signifies, i, think our support, because they are advanced weaponry. they also signify the way the battle has changed from what was required in kyiv, in the capital, when there was fighting in urban areas. where now it's fighting in the donbas, which is the area in the east, and this very flat. so the fighting is basically artillery, and it's from far
away physicians, positions are far away from each other, so this weaponry is more appropriate for the current fight. we also hope that allies and partners will also support ukraine with this kind of weaponry, and we will continue our very very close consultations with, them in order to adjust the security assistance that we are providing, to meet the needs that they have. >> united states ambassador to ukraine's bridget brink, madam ambassador, the tire country is acutely aware of you and your staff there. the danger that you are putting yourself into the do this important work. good luck to you, come back anytime, we'd love to have you back on theshow, and thank you for what you do. >> thank you so much,rachel, it's really great to see you and be here. >> all right, more news ahead tonight, stay with us. ght, stay with us. panera's new chef's chicken sandwiches. $0 delivery fee for a limited time. family is just very important. she's my sister and
we depend on each other a lot. she's the rock of the family. she's the person who holds everything together. it's a battle, you know. i'm going to be there. keytruda and chemotherapy meant treating my cancer with two different types of medicine. in a clinical trial, keytruda and chemotherapy was proven to help people live longer than chemotherapy alone. keytruda is used to treat more patients with advanced lung cancer than any other immunotherapy. keytruda may be used with certain chemotherapies as your first treatment if you have advanced nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer and you do not have an abnormal “egfr” or “alk” gene. keytruda helps your immune system fight cancer, but can also cause your immune system to attack healthy parts of your body. this can happen during or after treatment and may be severe and lead to death. see your doctor right away if you have cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, diarrhea, severe stomach pain or tenderness, severe nausea or vomiting, headache, light sensitivity, eye problems, irregular heartbeat, extreme tiredness, constipation, dizziness or fainting, changes in appetite,
thirst, or urine, confusion or memory problems, muscle pain or weakness, fever, rash, itching, or flushing. these are not all the possible side effects. tell your doctor about all your medical conditions including immune system problems, or if you've had an organ transplant, had or plan to have a stem cell transplant or have had radiation to your chest area or a nervous system condition. it feels good to be here for them. living longer is possible. it's tru. keytruda from merck. ask your doctor about keytruda. for state controller, ask your doctor only yiu will save taxpayers money. wait, who, me? me? no, not you. yvonne yiu. yvonne yiu. not me. good choice. for 25 years, yiu worked as an executive at top financial firms. managed hundreds of audits. as mayor, she saved taxpayers over $55 million. finding waste. saving money. because... yiu is for you. yiu is for you. exactly. you know what, i'm gonna say yvonne yiu. democrat for controller.


something. you know right now, i have something, they could bring me to a building that would clean you from covid as you walk through this. as you walk through -- the door, it'll kill any covid in your body, as we leave it'll kill the virus. they don't wanna talk about that they don't hear about that. >> i'm raphael warnock, and i approve this message. >> that's a new campaign ad from democratic georgia u.s.
senator raphael warnock, showing his republican senate opponent pushing a a magic missed that can clean you. he says he has this magic missed, he uses the magic mist to turn doorways into 100% curious for covid. that is the kind of ad you can run when your opponent is herschel walker. there's a reason mr. walker refuses toshowup for his primary debates, when he was running to become the republican nominee for senate in georgia. if your candidate accidentally veered into, i have a magic mist cure for covid right here, and no one wants to hear about it. if your guy veered into that territory every time they got behind a microphone, you'd probably try to keep them away from microphone, to. we will see if he agrees to debate raphael warnock, now that he is the republican nominee for senate in georgia. herschel walker really is the republican party's nominee for senate in georgia. which does seem kind of crazy,
then again, is that any crazier than the candidate republicans chose for senate in pennsylvania? after, all that candidate has also been accused of peddling his share of snake oil cures for various real elements. even how he ended up being the republican candidate for pennsylvania is still a mystery. the republican senate candidate mitch oz in pennsylvania, is a man who is from ohio. he has a home in florida, he votes in new jersey, he has no choice or nibble connection to pennsylvania whatever. alongside herschel, magic must walk, or as the republican senate candidate in georgia, the no connection to pennsylvania guys, who the republicans would like to be their candid sand date in that state as well. and made it all has been the republican pennsylvania senate candidate, any crazier than the candidate republicans chose for -- as their nominee for governor in pennsylvania?
he, after all, it is a sword wielding election denier, who has been subpoenaed by the january 6th investigation, to talk about, among other things, his role in putting forward a fix slate of trump electors from pennsylvania, even though trump lost pennsylvania. with each new primary election this year, the republican party has made sort of increasingly wild choices, for who their nominees are going to be, to represent them in november's elections. we'll, tomorrow, we're gonna get more. because tomorrow, there are primary elections in seven more states. and if you are looking to see who might be the next guy on the list of this amazing cast of characters were republicans have been dominating this year, you may want to pay particular attention to montana. montana republican congressional contender ryan's inky. if that places familiar to you, if that's faiths sounds familiar to you, it's probably
because you remember him for one of his 18th zillion different scandals during his time as trump's interior secretary. when i say 18, it was an 18 gazillion but it really was 18 different federal investigations involving ryan zinke, during his time his cabinet member. like the time you spend 12,000 dollar tax perry -- so i could fly an x oil executives private plane. and that time he spent 139,000 taxpayer dollars on a set of fancy new doors for his office. hundred $30,000 worth of doors? the timing overruled federal experts can block a native american casino project, right after he met with lobbyists from a rival casino giant. or the time that he allegedly tried to get an executive from the oil company haliburton, to build mr. zinke his own microbrewery, at a time when haliburton had business before the interior department. ryan zinke was, this is tough competition. ryan zinke, though, is perhaps
the most scandal plagued member of the trump cabinet. if you just look at scandals by volume. in terms of the number of months you served, versus the number of formal federal investigations that had to be opened into his conduct. ryan zinke really set some records, him and scott pruitt were's neck and neck and neck. but ryan zinke was really something. tomorrow, republicans are gonna decide whether or not they're gonna make ryan zinke, the latest in this year's very long string of quite amazing republican candidates for office. again, seven states have their primaries this year. sorry, seven states have their primaries tomorrow. watch montana in particular, they are breaking ryan zinke back. basically, all bets are off. watch this space. watch this space take on your wild world in style. ♪ age-related macular degeneration may lead to severe vision loss. and if you're taking a multivitamin alone, you may be missing a critical piece.
preservision. preservision areds 2 contains the only clinically proven nutrient formula recommended by the national eye institute to help reduce the risk of moderate to advanced amd progression. "preservision is backed by 20 years of clinical studies" "and its from the eye experts at bausch and lomb" so, ask your doctor about adding preservision. and fill in a missing piece of your plan. like i did with preservision" lemons. lemons, lemons, lemons. look how nice they are. the moment you become an expedia member, you can instantly start saving on your travels. so you can go and see all those, lovely, lemony, lemons. ♪ and never wonder if you got a good deal. because you did. ♪ at adp, we use data-driven insights to design hr solutions to provide flexible pay options and greater workforce visibility today,
so you can have more success tomorrow. ♪ one thing leads to another, yeah, yeah ♪ ♪ ♪ 100 years ago, a beautiful empire built on black excellence was booming. black wall street. it was a sight to be seen. until one day, it was all burned to the ground. but fire is no match for the fire within black dreamers everywhere. and so, new black wall streets rise. ♪ ♪ citi is committed to helping build black businesses through banking. ♪ ♪ citi is committed to h aleve x.ild its revolutionary rollerball design delivers fast, powerful, long-lasting pain relief. aleve it, and see what's possible.
panera chefs have crafted a masterpiece... succulent, seared chicken... a secret aioli... clean ingredients... in a buttery brioche roll. made fresh, to leave you... speechless. panera's new chef's chicken sandwiches. $0 delivery fee for a limited time. at this time on thursday, we

will be more than a couple of hours into the january 6th investigations first big public hearing, and our coverage of that first hearing. our special coverage is gonna start at 7 pm eastern time on thursday night, i'm going to be there along with a whole host of my msnbc colleagues. we, of course, will be showing the full hearing alive. i've covered many, many election nights. i've even covered multiple impeachments in the past. and i know those nights can be intimidating, and sometimes a little bit crazy. but when i prep for those nights, there's usually some
kind of long deep history we can look to, to at least make sure we understand how what we are covering now compared to similar events in our country's past. for this, though, for the january 6th investigation, i have to admit, i'm not a bit of a lost. when the assault on the u.s. capitol, the underlying plot to stop president biden from taking office, to stop the peaceful transfer of power. this is something where does feel like history is giving us some fresh material. and now we've got the congressional investigation about toshowus their work, in terms of what they have discovered. and, at the same time, we've got the justice department in public facing actions, like new indictments, and in subpoenas that have been described to us by the recipients. we have all sorts of new information about how the justice department itself appears to be growing at multiple fronts at this topic, multiple different elements of those alleged crimes. including, now, two different big indictments for seditious conspiracy, which is something
that is almost never happened in u.s. history. it feels like freshman tyrrell from history, given that, how do we prep? how do we make sure that we've got our heads on straight, in terms of what this investigation means for our country. how it measures of against the challenges we face before. i don't know. i'm calling in a pinch hitter right, now, to help us answer that question. joining us nigh now is michael beschloss, at msnbc c news presidential historian, it's great to see you. >> great to see you, great to be together. >> unprecedented is a word that i've been increasingly becoming allergic to. and i try not to use it in a wanton sort of way. that said, i feel like i need advice from you on what's sort of historical parallels, historical analogies we should draw on, in trying to understand the importance of what we're gonna learn this week. >> well, you know, take a look at american history. when did we see a coup d'état by a losing presidential
candidate, to take power even though he lost the election? never happened before last year, 17 months ago tonight. that's what happened with donald trump. did we see an attack on congress in the capital by people trying to overthrow our democracy? it looks like, i haven't seen anything like that. 1861, lincoln thought the civil war, but elections remained. 1932, we were at a table terrible depression. but people did not turn to huey long, or dictators. elections went on during world war ii. here, we are beginning to go off the rails. and the other thing,rachel, we talk about those hearings. can't wait to watch and hear what you have to say about it, earlier this week. the top time of joseph mccarthy, and demagogue who is making false charges that there were communists all through the american government. there were hearings, everyone watched, they saw that mccarthy was a fraud. he was marginalized.
1973, watergate hearings, john dean, mainly, but some others, charge that richard unexciting was in charge of the watergate cover-up, which he denied. those hearings were watched by everyone, they in the tapeshowthat he'd been lying, he'd been thrown out of office. but, 2022, i hope that a lot of people watched these hearings. i'm not so sure. also, we're a little bit more unknown and that we earlier were in american history. and americans, i think, do not realize, as they did for most of our time, that we've got to fight for democracy every single minute. plus, republican leaders in 74 went to nixon and said, you have to quit, you've gone way beyond the line. how antique does that sound tonight? >> well, one of the things that i feel like is not so much a wildcard, but at least sort of a looming presence in this whole discussion. including, how these hearings are going to be received, and
how we understand the importance of this moment as americans, is what is going on with the justice department. we now have two very rare seditious conspiracy indictments against two paramilitary groups that supported trump. we've got more than 800 people indicted at the individual level for participating, but we also now have good public facing evidence that the justice department is looking at the plot, more than they are just looking at the individual perpetrators of the violence in person that day. the justice department, potentially having a serious role here at turning this into a criminal matter. do we have an experience that interact with a congressional investigation like this? >> yes, watergate is a perfect example, where there are people in the justice department, despite the fact that nixon was president, who are looking into this, henry peterson, other prosecutors, that were working to some extent in tandem with the watergate investigators. and also with the judge, john's arica, who is early on to see
this conspiracy. so, the system works, but the system only works if it is demanded. could be we have a republican majority in congress this fall. if that, happens you may see republicans in congress wanting to cut the money to the department of, to turn the lights out. we may be living in a different this is xfinity rewards. our way of saying thanks, with rewards for the whole family! from epic trips... to jurassic-themed at-home activities. join over 3 million members and start enjoying rewards like these, and so much more in the xfinity app! and don't miss jurassic world:dominion in theaters june 10th. this is xfinity rewards. our way of saying thanks, with rewards for the whole family!
from epic trips... to jurassic-themed at-home activities. join over 3 million members and start enjoying rewards like these, and so much more in the xfinity app! and don't miss jurassic world:dominion in theaters june 10th.