say, in africa, where there was a lot of worry that it would raf -- that it would ravage that part of the country. and parts of that country have done an amazing job and parts of india have done an amazing job, but unless we get the world vaccinated, the virus is going to win and india is an example of that right now, which the why i agree, we need to ship out vaccines and waiving intellectual property patents. congress woman who are is back from india, her parents are doing well, thank goodness. i'm glad to hear that. thank you for making time tonight. >> thank you. chris. >> all right, that is all in on this monday night, always an adventure, therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. >> to the extent that i have add ed to your adventure, i apologize. >> that was not directed to you at all. that would be a wildly passive
aggressive thing to do. i was not referencing you at all. we had a little technical stuff. but we are good now. >> i will tell you i'm having a contact lens crisis as we speak. my drama right now is i'm wearing contact lenses that are not working and i don't know which pair of glasses will work if i have to give up on the contact lenses all together. >> wear them both. >> this is why i turn to you in this type of crisis. thank you,my friend. and thanks to you at home. when there's a little bit of drama in how things turn out. it is the 26th day of april today. on for a bit of a reality in context check. by the end of this week, we will be through and done with the first 100 days of the joe biden presidency. and by the end of this week. we will be through and done with the first third of this year.
2021. which seems impossible. it's been six months since the presidential election. how is that possible? it feels like it's been 16 minutes. but spring has sprung. part of the reason that i have been having sort of technical difficulties and things are wonky all day, i today, return to my office for the first time since last march. and i have learned a lot. i learned that some chewing gum happily survives untouched in a desk drawer for more than a year and some really does not. and boy, when it goes bad, it goes bad. and the packets of soy sauce that you get with chinese food, some of them turn solid over time in just the right conditions. whoa, take it from me. it's a whole new world out there once you get your vaccine, full of wonder and weird stuff to clean up that you have forgotten about. anyway. remarkable news day. lots of twists and turn in the news today. and i think it will be like that
for most of this week. today we got the first round of data from the 2020 census. the census that is in the constitution that happens because the constitution directly orders it and this is the not detailed set of results. we get a bottom line number for each state and therefore for the whole country for the census. and that bottom line number we got from the census today, shows that, you know, while we are shot shrinking as a country. the u.s. population grew in this past decade, at the second slowest rate on record in our country. the only time our population grew more slowly than it did these past ten years was in the 1930s in the great depression. you might have seen headlines this afternoon and tonight about what the new population figures mean for politics. and there are big political implications. we have again, just rough data, the total population of each state. nothing about where people are
living within those states. nothing about age or race or ethnicity, just the bottom line population numbers for each state. but those do tell you how many seats in congress that state is going to get. so, there's been all the interesting headlines today about what states are losing a congressional seat. democratic leading states thought they were going lose a ton of states and republican states thought they were going to gain a ton of seats which would give the republicans a big boost in terms of trying to take back control of the u.s.s congress. but when the numbers came out today, the swings were less dramatic than people expected. a lot of blue states sighs of relief today they thought it could be worse. but because this census was -- i mean it's always interesting. happens every ten years, right? even things that happen every
ten years have a weirdness and does this countness to them. right, because the census was carried on out because of the constitution orders. the thing that we have to contend with about this year's census data is it was carried out by the trump administration. they got caught multiple times. they got reemed out by multiple federal judges for ways they were trying to engineer an under count of people, basically, of people of color, ways they were doing it wrong and dragging their feet and not getting it done right. the last time they were in court over the census was when they were deciding to end the census early that they wanted to stop counting before they were done. that was i think the last thing they went to court for. they went to court over a lot of the different aspects of ways they appeared to be deliberately
screwing it up. so given that, and they say u.s. population growth is dune, way down, further than it has been since the 1930s and the great depression. maybe it's true. it's totally plausible that it's true, and it is also possible that we think that it's the great counts. how do we figure it out, we get a census every ten years we were only lucky that the ten year timer went off when he was president. did we get a screwed up census as a ultimate are of the fact that it was his administration that carried out. we are already using it to decide how many members of
congress will come from each state. that's just the start of the important things that the numbers will be used for. we will get expert help from that tonight with somebody who won court cases about how trump administration was screwing up this very important thing. and we have an announcement today from the biden justice department, it's the second time in a week that they have made an announcement like this. attorney general merrick garland, announcing that they are opening an investigation in to the practices of a specific local police department. the first one of course was last week. when he announced a pattern and practice investigation in to the minneapolis police department. after the police killings of george floyd and then daunte wright in brooklyn center nearby. the new one announced today by attorney general garland will be in louisville, kentucky, after the high profile, police killing of breonna taylor during the
execution of a no-knock warrant on the apparent where she was sleeping. the new police chief in louisville, interestingly, welcomed this move, this announcement by the justice department today. that is important. these investigations by the federal justice department are a really big deal. they can bring about significant and fairly fast changes in policing. it's a big deal for the justice department to do something like this. this happened quite a few times during the obama administration, trump did it once total in four years now it seems like the biden justice administration will be using it more regular areally, essentially to force police reform by intensive federally led police oversight in individual cities. so we are going to have more on that ahead tonight as well. and on covid, two big moves on two big issues today. one international and one
domestic. first that we are going to rush to help india with the apocolyptic conditions they have there. people dying outside hospitals that cannot admit them and oxygen a that may keep them alive. the specific help that biden's administration announced for india, the white house also announced that the 60 million doses we have stockpiled of the astrazeneca vaccine, 60 million doses that we are not going to use at least any time soon, those will be donated to other countries. astrazeneca vaccine is approved all over the world but our fda has not yet approved it here. the reason we have a stockpile of the vaccine is because they built up that stockpile so once the fda did approve it, 60 million doses would be instantly available and ready toship out. now, the fda may yet approve
astrazeneca for use by americans and now that we have sufficient supplies of the three other vaccines that are already approved here, those other vaccines are now going to be sent to other countries and i think it's worth, it's probably easiest to think of it as aer -- it as a sort of down payment to help get the whole world vaccinated. if the whole world is not vaccinated, the whole world, including us will not beat this thing. is so the upping of the global capacity to handle the pandemic. in addition to that, we are expecting a big domestic announcement on covid from president biden tomorrow. as lots of states have been free-lancing on the masks issue. just dropping or changing mask mandates according the a local politics or local considerations and instead of the basis of
clear national scientific guidance. dr. anthony fauci said recently that that we should expect the cdc to update the national guidance soon about whether or not we should wear masks outdoors. now we believe the new guidance will come as soon as tomorrow. we don't know yet what it will be. or how complexity will be. we don't know for example, if the guidance about mask use outdoors will be different for those people vaccinated verse people who are not vaccinated. but here's something interesting that you may not have seen reported today. we have confirmed that the guidance we have been waiting for on masks in workplace president biden in his first week in office asked osha to develop this guidance for all american workplaces with a deadline of march 15th to have it ready. since then, we might have noticed we have talked about it several times on theshow. we have repeatedly asked osha and the labor department where
it is. biden's executive order from his first few days in office said osha needed to have mask guidance for federal workplace rule ready by march 15th. since march 15th we keep asking where is it? what happened to that? well, tonight, they tell us that the new proposed rule from osha about masks in the workplace, that he proposed rule has been delivered to the white house today to the office of management and budget. and this is a big deal. i mean the office of management and budget, there will be some sort of review and eventually some rule will be announced. it's a big deal. for all the checker board mishmash on masks. some have it, some cities don't. if the biden administration is now going to say, hey, new nationwide enforceable federal rule on workplace safety about masks, here's what the deal is on mask for all workplaces.
that is going to be a very big deal. and again, that new proposed rule from osha has finally been delivered to the white house as of tonight. more than a month late. and it is, apparently it's been delivered on the eve of period biden's expected announcement for masked guidance for people outdoors. we don't know what the proposed federal workplace rule says yet. i'm truly curious to see how it's worded and what they will recommend. we have been trying get somebody to leak it to us for a sneak preview or at least to give us a characterization of what that proposed rule was. no one will leak it to us or tell us. but, i had let you know what we can figure out when we figure it out. it will be interesting to see how republicans react to any new guidance especially because they have at times been really, are really histerical masks are.
it will be interesting to see how they react to new mask guidance from the president. whether it's about american's outdoor mask use, or we get the new osha guidance in the federal workplace rule. it's going to be interesting to see. it's hard to tell what the republicans are thinking right now. the loudest on the right spent this weekend trying one-up each other about how offended they are by president biden's ban on meat. republicans and conservative media figures denounced the meat ban angrily. they mocked the meat ban andthreatened dire consequences of anyone trying to enforce the meat ban. of course there's no meat ban.
president biden has not proposed anything, about anybody eating anything. let alone a ban on hamburgers or whatever they are fantasizing about on the right. it's not like he is entertaining it or progressives are pushing him on it. nobody is banning meat. there's no meat ban. and yet, it's completely made up. whole cloth, doesn't come from anywhere. and yet, that was the animaing scandal of the past three days in republican circles. they are very, very, very, very mad. and they have got their messaging cranked up to 3,000. on something that isnot happening at all. so what do you guys care about some? the -- do you have anything to say about things that are happen? you want to talk about dr. seuss and the meat ban? okay, that is cool. there's been consternation over
the interview that kevin mccarthy, house leader,done with the new york times. he did try to rewrite history about the mob attack on the capital. tried to make it sound like president trump did not know it was happening. and he took back things he himselfpreviously said about his own actions that day. and what the president did as well and their conversations. but for all the consternation on him trying put a shine on january 6th and lying about his experience on the 6th. the continued and deserved interest, the republicans in office still cannot figure out what to do with their twice impeached one-term president facing multiple criminal investigations after he left washington almost literally a smoulderring hulk. for all of the interest over that, and i get it. when it comes to the latest interview that kevin mccarthy
did with the "new york times" there should be a thing we should be talking about. can we talk about what else we learned about the house leader kevin mccarthy and what he himself did on january 6th? i don't understand how it's not the headline. this anecdote, totally new to me and as far as i can tell, previously unreported. it comes 34 paragraphs in to a story that is 39 paragraphs long. i areread -- i will read it to you. after the house chamber was evacuated on january 6th mr. mccarthy retreated to his office with a colleague, a republican congressman from arkansas. when it was evident that the rioters were breaking in, mr. mccarthy's security detail insisted he leave, but congress westerman was left behind in mccarthy's inner work area, for protection, congress westerman
said he commandeered a civil war sword and barricaded in a private bathroom and waited on out the siege while waiting on congressman mccarthy's toilet. and next line, friends describe the post election period as traumatic for mr. mccarthy. wait, for mr. mccarthy? for kevin? he was rushed out. he brought another member of congress to his office and then it was like oh, no, we came here to hide but the rioters they are inside now, they are coming for us. bye bruce. see you later. i'm auto out of here. good luck crouching on top of the toilet, they won't see your feet if they look under the door. i don't know. the guy ended up opening up a
display of civil war artifacts and grabbing a display sword and then he to hide on kevin mccarthy's toilet because leader kevin mccarthy left that congressman there to fend for himself. while the rioters closed in. he left with the security detail. buthe did not bring the other congressman with him. it was not like that congressman had an -- they left him, while they went through the office. imagine the discussion in like the armored suv where they are taking him somewhere safe. do you think at one moment they were like, oh, i hope bruce is okay. yeah, we did just leave him. we left him because the rioters were closing in and they did go through the office, they left
him there. that is their leader taking care of the members. it's the joke of how fast you need to be to not get eaten by a bear. turns out you don't need to run that fast, just faster than your friend. sorry, bruce, good luck with the mob. did you lock the toilet door? so that, that is what is going on in republican leadership will -- but they are standing strong against joe biden banning meat. but they just made that up. but they have their priorities, in terms of what they are working on and spending money on and doing in a concerted way, they are trying undo the results of the 2020 election from six months ago. for a few days now, we have been covering this whack-a-doo story. this recount of most of the ballots from the presidential election in arizona this past
november. 2/3 of the ballots in the great state of arizona, comes from maricopa county, and that vote in maricopa county, that is most of the state. 2/3 of the state's votes that vote has been audited by accredited firms. twice, actually. biden's win was certified unanimously, by the board of supervisors in maricopa county can, five seats, four of them held by republicans. no credible claims of anything been wron with the vote there. but they have figured on out a way to arrange for a recounting, a way they can count themselves, that vote, privately. to see if the result is something that they suspect it
may be should be. they are using a private firm called cyber ninjas that is led by a guy from the qanon, stop the steal, wing-nut wing of the trump conspiracy election area. one america news, you know that station, they are the only press to record on, report on, and broadcast the supposed audit of all of the ballots from the presidential election from maricopa county in 2020. no press. no reporters other than one america news are being allowed in to cover what they are doing in there with the ballots. one reporter was able to get in by signing up as an official observer of the count. she reported there was no training at all for the observers and the unknown people that they brought in to handle physically the real ballots from the election were given blue
pens to do their work. blue pens that are readable by the scanners that read the ballots. since they allhad pens that could hark the ballots that would be read by the scanners as markings on the balance orkts -- on the ballot, theycould remark them or spoil the ballot. that reporter joined us as a guest and she tried to get in for a second shift and she is not allowed in. and that is it in terms of what anyone knowing what arizona is doing with the ballots from the election. >> the level of, part of the reason i have been paying attention to this story and i have a feeling we will be stuck on it for a while is becauseif you look at the, through the other side of the telescope.
if you look at it through the eyes of crazy trump world, the level of excitement in crazy trump world about what is goingin arizona is hard to over state. and it's every one from steve ban on to the qanon people, to president trump himself putting out a statement praising arizona republicans for doing this. to recount the vote in arizona. promising that the same thing, the same kind of audit is going to happen in all of the republican controlled states. where trump lost. wisconsin, michigan, georgia, new hampshire, pennsylvania, you calling them out by name. saying they need to do what arizona is doing. they need a republican led, private recount hiring just the right kind of firm to do this work with the real ballots. he said that he will do it in all the states and overturn the results in all the states. if you get just the right people to conduct the audit. i'm sure it will go the way you
want it to. the firm run by the qanon trump conspiracy theory guy, the firm that has been given the contract in this recount in arizona, as i mention this firm is called cyber ninjas, and that firm through the lawyer told a judge that they will not disclose the means by which they are conducting the audit nor the processes they are using to handle the ballots or indeed recount the ballots. the company said those are trade secrets so they cannot be disclosed. this is from their actual court filing, apparently written by a lawyer who types everything on an etch-a-sketch. verbatim, clearly the documents cyberer ninjas has been ordered to file are confidential information for various reasons including that they constitute business information and concepts as well aspirational information and records and reflect the know-how of the cyber ninjas. and the lawyer said that the cyber ninjas expect to is have
similar business opportunities to undertake such work for other governments around the country. that's why they cannot disclose what they are doing so they cannot let other competitors in on their trade secrets of how they find trump votes. they can't disclose their methods. they are pretty sure they will be doing it in other states too. that's what they told the court about why they cannot describe processes. and on the one hand, you think, maybe they don't have processes. maybe they don't have things they are doing. or written policies or planned training or anything. maybe they are winging it. or maybe they are planning to doing this in multiple states or both. well, tonight, bingo, there they are. announcing that in michigan, they are also the cyber ninjas,
going to be part of the same effort. proving there were dramatic. dramatic flaws. considerable fraud. terrible things gone wrong and the michigan presidential election in 2020 as well. cyber ninja will help them out with that one too. they are creating a new founding myth for the republican party and the american right. that trump won the election and it was robbed from him and biden is illegitimate as a president and they are starting in arizona and even before that is done they are moving on with the same cast of characters, literally qanon conspiracy group, and getting the job done in michigan and then anywhere republicans loeld power in the state level to hire them to make it happen. it is so stupid. and you they can do it,
and do it right, it's the end of democracy. at least to the point on that we have a democracy with two competing parties where the people vote with ballots, they are tallied in a sound way and we accept the results and the loser lives to fight another day and the winner gets to govern. to the extent that that is the way our democracy functions. if after every democracy you lose, and you call in the cyber ninjas to call you a usurped power. it's a quick, quick, quick turn to the end t the lawyer in arizona that is trying to stop them there. joins us next. therabreath, it's a better mouthwash. at walmart, target and other fine stores.
biden: when i think about climate change, the word i think of is jobs. vo: and these aren't just the jobs of tomorrow. they're the jobs of right now. good paying jobs to modernize our infrastructure. in manufacturing. construction. engineering. they're in our cities... in our suburbs... and our small towns... we take on climate change... and we build back better with clean energy jobs. biden: so let's waste any more time, let's get to work. (brother) hi sis! (sister) you're late! (brother) fashionably late. (sister) we can not be late. (brother) there's a road right there. (brother) that's a cat. wait, just hold madi's headpiece. (sister) no. seriously? (brother) his name is whiskers.
(bride) what happened to you? whose cat is that? (brother) it's a long story. (sister) oh my gosh. (farmer) whiskers! there you are! (avo) the subaru crosstrek. the adventurous s-u-v for adventurous people. love. it's what makes subaru, subaru. my name is douglas. i'm a writer/director and i'm still working. in the kind of work that i do, you are surrounded by people who are all younger than you. i had to get help somewhere along the line to stay competitive. i discovered prevagen. i started taking it and after a period of time, my memory improved. it was a game-changer for me. prevagen. healthier brain. better life.
wanna help kids get their homework done? well, an internet connection's a good start. but kids also need computers. and sometimes the hardest thing about homework is finding a place to do it. so why not hook community centers up with wifi? for kids like us, and all the amazing things we're gonna learn. over the next 10 years, comcast is committing $1 billion to reach 50 million low-income americans with the tools and resources they need to be ready for anything. i hope you're ready. 'cause we are.

it's absurd in a concept, but there it is. cyber ninjas, hired by arizona senate to recount the ballots and keep their procedures secret. despite a court order to spell out how they are conducting an audit of all of the presidential election ballots in maricopa county, which is 2/3 of the ballots. more than 2 million presidential ballots. the qamon, stop the steal, conspiracy theorist firm. that firm is said they will not disclose the trade secrets of how they are recounting the ballots or what they are doing with the ballots now that they have their hands on them. that case was brought by the arizona democratic party. which is asking the court to
stop this. this audit whichthey say is illegal. it's violating the sanctitiy of the ballot. it's going on, and nobody knows what they are doing behind closed doors. joining us now is the attorney representing arizona democrats who are trying to stop this election audit. thank you so much for being here, i appreciate your time. >> hi, thanks for is having me. >> there's a pronounced crescendo of national interest in what is happening in this case and the days have gone by and the country has caught on to the fact that they are trying to do something with the presidential ballots from arizona from 2020. that raises serious concerns about whether the election is being messed with. what do you think a national
audience should understand, are there misconceptions in the national coverage of the matter thus far? >> well, i think that even the people here in arizona whole are not entirely sure what is happening with the audit for weeks and weeks have been efforts to get information about the policies and procedures and steps being taken to safeguard and secure the ballots and election equipment that came in the possession of this audit firm, cyber ninjas. to the extent there's a legitimate purpose to audit the ballot from the 2020 election. nobody is certain what they are looking for or what they are trying to uncover and most importantly from my perspective and from my clients' perspective, we are really
concerned about the long-term impact that a audit like this withno safeguards and protections in place, does to the overall erosion of public trust in our elections. >> yes, it's sort of dog biting its own tail in a way. the claim that public doubts about the integrity of the election justify a, some in sort of review like this and then the review is conducted in a way that legitimately does risk the compromise of the ballots themselves and the certified election result that is already bee effecuated ofs that have already counted. do you believe that the order has teeth and it's changed anything in terms of caution or the way they are approaching this? >> well, let me take your first question first, i think it
absolutely has teeth when a judge has to do order parties to follow the law, that is meaning. and frankly, you know, we all are expected to follow the law when the court heard arguments from the parties last week and required the defendants and agents to comply with the law. that is critical. that is important. so so, yes, i do think it has teeth. whether or not that has changed the behavior or impacted the work that is occurring, i'm not so sure about. and that is something that we are going to ask the court to look at. the other part of the order that is critical is the judge ordered cyber ninjas to produce documents that reflect the security measures that they are adopting toshowthey have trained audit workers that are handling the ballots equipment and as you mentioned earlier, the documents have not been produced even though it was
ordered by a court and no objectioned made at the time of the court order, but when they were due in yesterday they were not made and instead, the, they filed a motion asking the court to not force them to provide those and claiming things like trade secrets and other security issues. and i think, you know, in terms of the double standard here, you have affirm that is acting as an agent of the state, they are using taxpayer dollars to conduct this auditity in addition to, you know, third party funding that is coming in from, we don't know where. but if you are asking the taxpayers to pay for this audit then they ought to know what is happening and they ought to be able to feel secure that their ballots and equipment and other items that are involved in the elections are safeguarded appropriately. >> the attorney representing
arizona democrats, trying to stop the private company doing this audit at the behest of republican arizona senate rep republicans, thank you for helping us understanding. i know the battle continues in the arizona courts, keep us apprised we would love to have you back. >> thank you, so much, take care. >> what she said about funding the thing is another really interesting part of the story. arizona republicans say it's costing $150,000 and that is how much taxpayer money they are putting in toyota. -- putting in to it. the company is accepting private funding also, to conduct this. and they won't say where it's from. one of the entities that has been raising private funding to pay for what's happening to the ballots in arizona is this trump tv network one america news. their reporters who are working on the story have been raising money to pay for the audit.
and then they are also the only ones who are allowed to cover it by bein the room. seems kosher, that's the way we do things. more ahead for us tonight. stay with us. rs. that's siiir patrick. oooooow. sir. it doesn't happen often. everyday people taking on the corporate special interests. and winning. but now, the for the people act stands on the brink of becoming law. ensuring accurate elections. iron-clad ethics rules to crack down on political self-dealing. a ban on dark money. and finally reducing corporate money in our politics. to restore our faith in government. because it's time. for the people to win. ♪ limu emu & doug ♪
excuse me ma'am,. did you know that liberty mutual customizes your car insurance so you only pay for what you need? thank you! hey, hey, no, no, limu, no limu! only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ we need to reduce plastic waste in the environment. that's why at america's beverage companies, our bottles are made to be re-made. not all plastic is the same. we're carefully designing our bottles to be one hundred percent recyclable, including the caps. they're collected and separated from other plastics, so they can be turned back into material that we use to make new bottles. that completes the circle, and reduces plastic waste. please help us get every bottle back. >> tech: every customer has their own safelite story.
thatthis couple was oncle, and a camping trip...aste. ...when their windshield got a chip. they drove to safelite for a same-day repair. and with their insurance, it was no cost to them. >> woman: really? >> tech: that's service you can trust. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ ♪ when i was young ♪ no-no-no-no-no please please no. ♪ i never needed anyone. ♪ front desk. yes, hello... i'm so... please hold. ♪ those days are done. ♪ i got you.
♪ all by yourself. ♪ go with us and find millions of flexible options. all in our app. expedia. it matters who you travel with. is your family ready for an emergency? you can prepare by mapping out two ways to escape your home, creating a supply kit, and including your whole family in practice drills. for help creating an emergency plan, visit safetyactioncenter.pge.com ♪ ♪ ♪ for help creating an emergency plan, ♪ ♪ ♪ deposit, plan and pay with easy tools from chase. simplicity feels good. chase. make more of what's yours. a little preparation will make you
and your family safer in an emergency. a week's worth of food and water, radio, flashlight, batteries and first aid kit are a good start to learn more, visit safetyactioncenter.pge.com   do you remember wilber ross, donald trump's secretary. he only made the news for ridiculous thing thes like wears $600 commerce department monogramed slippers trump's secretary address. he fell asleep at meetings on tv.
but he moments of genuine scandal, when he threatened to fire weather officials because a hurricane was not going alabama, and they said so, represent that? sharpie-gate? it was wilber ross who tried to fire the weather people. he wanted to fire them for that. it was a time when wilber ross lied to the supreme court as commerce secretary, it was ross's job to oversee the u.s. census. the population count that the u.s. has to undertake because the constitution says so. they decided they would add a new question. andthe aclu, took wilber ross and the commerce department to court saying they were punishesing the citizenship question on the census because
they wanted to drive down response rates in immigrant communities. it would askew the congressional seats. wilber ross said it was ridiculous, he merely added the question to the census because the justice department told him to. he was barely involved. a number of federal courts, found that was not true. in fact, the evidence showed clearly that wilber ross decided to add that citizenship question and then want around to find a pretext to justify it. even as more and more evidence emerged saying that the question was what it was. a straight up ploy to advantage white people and republicans in
congressional reputation by excluding immigrant communities from the census count. after the supreme court blocked the trump administration adding the new question to the -- they ordered the exclusion of immigrants from the census count, it was unauto clear how they would go about doing it and they ordered that that the census be ended early which is a good way to come up with an under count among hardest to reach communities including immigrants, minorities and the poor. the people hardest to get to. sometimes you don't get to until you have made multiple attempts. you cut the time short, you have less of the people counted. trump decided that the countto be delivered to him, so he could approve the count before sending it to congress so he could make sure on his way out the door before he was replaced that the numbers were rigged in the way that he wanted. >> but that did not happen, a
census count did not get delivered we got the census count today and the top line numbers are fascinating and people will debate the ramifications of these, texas gains two seats and five other states gain one seat each and seven states lose a seat, including california, which is cloozing aggressional seat for the first time ever. new york loses a seat. turns out they just lost one and they would have kept that one if only 89 more census forms had been returned from new york state.   lots of interesting stuff there. but the question hanging overall of this is, even if donald trump's plan to explicitly re -- the numbers to exclude numbers, know even if those plots failed because they got caught in lots of cases they were blocked by the courts. do his years of messing with the census, mean that these numbers are always going to have a foot note on them and they cannot be
trusted. just the person to ask, next. for people with heart failure taking entresto, it may lead to a world of possibilities. entresto is now approved for more patients with chronic heart failure. don't take entresto if pregnant; it can cause harm or death to an unborn baby. don't take entresto with an ace inhibitor or aliskiren, or if you've had angioedema with an ace or arb. the most serious side effects are angioedema, low blood pressure kidney problems, or high blood potassium. ask your doctor about prescription entresto.


♪ ♪ yesterday's thinking is done new ideas we have a ton so keep pushing forward toward a better world for everyone. make a different future start different at godaddy.com ♪ (ac/dc: back in black) ♪ ♪ ♪ the bowls are back. applebee's irresist-a-bowls all just $8.99.
at the aclu, headf their voting rights project is dale ho. one of the ours that argued in the cases in the supreme court that resulted the trump administration from one of the ways they were fektdively trying to result of the 2020 census. thank you so much for making time. >> thank you for having me,rachel. >> i want to know if we should think of the 2020 census as a count, that has an asterisk on it because of all the the different ways the trump administration really seemed to try to be screwing it up. >> well, we never have seen so many efforts to interfere with the census, politically. but i think it's too early toe to say, whether or not these numbers are as accurate as we would like them to be. we have a lot of reasons to be confident. there was no citizenship question, on the census. immigration status didn't
capture for being counted in the census and the bureau had the time it said that it needed to process the data after collection of census responses. took place. trump failed in his effort to try to cut that time short. but there are reasons for concern. we have the covid-19 pandemic, which obviously made responses and outreach a lot more difficult. we had horrible anti-immigrant, xenophobic rhetoric, you know, spewed forth from this -- from the last administration. which probably, contributed to some reluctance to participate in the census. and then, as you noted, census outreach, itself, was cut short by the administration. so, there are reasons to be optimistic, but there are also reasons to be concerned. >> and, dale, as we get more detailed information, obviously, we just got top-line numbers today. we don't know, even, you know, age numbers, let alone ethnicity or race numbers. we don't even know geographic numbers, within specific states. we just know raw-population numbers for each -- each state and for the country.
as we get more, will potential problems be evident? i mean, how much transparencesy do we have to know, for example, if there was a community in a specific state that was really left out? or if there was some place, that otherwise had some sort of warping of their representation? >> well, i think, as you noted,rachel, it is a little early right now to speculate as to what problems may emerge when we look at the census data a little more closely. we know in june, they'll release its own review the census bureau used for its operations this time around. and then, towards the end of the year, we'll get a study from the census bureau, itself, which does its best to try to estimate, whether or not there was any kind of undercount of particular populations either nationally or state by state or even within individual states. >> director of the voting rights project at the aclu who did a
lot with his team to shape the reality of what happened here, with this important count. getting the first data from it today. dale, thanks for being here tonight. i appreciate it. >> thank you so much.rachel. >> all right. we'll be right back. stay with us. we'll be right bac. stay with us to help keep the gum seal tight. new parodontax active gum repair toothpaste.
you know it's silly six-foot five, three hundred pounds i ride motorcycles on the weekends. so the thought of getting a hearing aid, i was.. i was scared. with lively, did a hearing test on the computer, when they sent them in the mail they were already set up for me. this little thing right here, has made me whole again. a test in minutes, hearing aids in days, better hearing in no time. get started today at listenlively.com the sky is the limit now, on what i can go do. fact i'm going to go riding this weekend. >> tech: every customer has their own safelite story. this couple was on a camping trip... ...when their windshield got a chip. they drove to safelite for a same-day repair. and with their insurance, it was no cost to them. >> woman: really? >> tech: that's service you can trust. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ hey lily, i need a new wireless plan for my business, but all my employees need something different. oh, we can help with that.
okay, imagine this... your mover, rob, he's on the scene and needs a plan with a mobile hotspot. we cut to downtown, your sales rep lisa has to send some files, asap! so basically i can pick the right plan for each employee... yeah i should've just led with that... with at&t business... you can pick the best plan for each employee and only pay for the features they need. [sfx: psst psst] allergies don't have to be scary. spraying flonase daily stops your body from overreacting to allergens all season long. psst! psst! all good

i made it through theshow, without having to put my glasses on. yes. couldn't see the camera the whole time. but that's fine. it's going to do it for us tonight. keep an eye out tomorrow for covid guidance. we are expecting new cdc guidance on masks. but i will you see you here again tomorrow night. >> good evening,rachel. we have beto o'rourke tonight as our first guest to talk about those additional house seats that texas is gonna get. >> uh-huh. >> and how they might try to -- republicans might try to gerrymander those. and also, of course, what "the new york times" is calling the most-restrictive voter laws in the country now, being pushed through the texas legislature. beto o'rourke is fighting that. he will be