state/blue state divide. i don't see a two countries, covid positive and covid negative. >> always a pleasure to talk to you. thank you. >> thank you. >> as some spom people are holding out t lawrence o'donnell sits down to president biden in a special msnbc town hall event happening tomorrow night. he will be joined by members of the white house covid-19 response team and the developer of the moderna vaccine. watch it tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. eastern on msnbc, streaming on telemundo.com. that is "all in" on this tuesday night. "therachelmaddowshow" starts right now. >> is it okay for you and i to kick it's about how lawrence go got a presidential interview before us? >> interesting. should we do it here? >> we don't have to do it in front of anybody. i think -- >> i mean, i'm sure -- >> it totally makes sense. >> good for him. >> yeah. >> these things pop up as news
to me. i am like, all right, good for them. i am here. joe biden, if you want to talk. >> that's exactly how i feel. a, i'm happy for lawrence. i am b, like, lawrence? c, like, did everybody know this was happening except for? >> i heard whisperings of it. we are going to watch it. we are excited for our colleague sitting with joe biden. >> true. >> zero professional jealousy emanating to off your television screens right now. >> thank you. thank you very much. i appreciate the smokescreen, my friend.   all right. and thanks to you at home for joining us. very happy to have you with us tonight. don't tell lawrence about that conversation. as we have been reporting tonight, tomorrow going to be a big day. the cdc's vaccine advisory committee meets to consider the recommendation to change the age eligible for the pfizer vaccine that protects against covid.
that pfizer vaccine is authorized for use in people age 16 and older. tomorrow they will take up the question of whether that should be change today age 12 and over. if, as expected, the cdc advisory panel says yes to that and then the cdc itself agrees, then the first 12, 13, 14, 15-year-olds could start getting vaccinated in country potentially as early as thursday morning. as early as the day after tomorrow. so that's a really big deal. that's a big next step. we will be talking more about that tonight. the vaccine rollout, of course, remains a complex thing. the anticipation of tomorrow's big pfizer decision comes tonight as the white house has also just told dates that they are states they are not getting any doses of the johnson & johnson vaccine next week. johnson & johnson has been cleared in terms of safety concerns after a brief hiatus, but because johnson & johnson is one shot instead of two shots,
because it is very well tolerate and effective, because it is easy to transport and to store at normal temperatures, a lot of states, a lot of entities, a lot of individual americans have a preference for the one-shot johnson & johnson vaccine, but that company has been plagued by production shortfalls and glitches from the very beginning. apparently now, for the first time next week, that will result in the federal government not shipping j&j vaccines to the states at all. at least in the short term. that's a very, very interesting development. we will be watching that closely.   today is also now day five, believe it or not, of the shutdown of the largest fuel pipeline in the united states. the 5,000-mile-long colonial pipeline that runs from the into new england boggles my mind this isn't even bigger news than it is. it's day five of the largest
pipeline in the country being shut down because of cyberattackers who reportedly seized control of the computer networks of the company that operates that pipeline. the attackers then demanded that the company pay a ransom of some kind to get their stuff back. we don't know how much ran some was demanded. we don't know if the ransom was paid by the company. the fbi is investigating this as a crime. the fbi says they have identified a russian and eastern european-based hacking group as responsible for the attack, but even with that, though, i mean, this pipeline is still down. five days into it, and this is the biggest fuel pipeline in the country. and you can't shut down something like that for five days without feeling it. and we are now feeling the first effects on the ground of this sort of frighteningly successful attack. gations running out of gas in the southeast, increasingly up the eastern seaboard. some of that may be hoarding.
they are causing them by filling up every tank they've got maybe. but hoarding can't explain why airlines now are having to reroute planes and add new stops for long-haul flights because they can't get the fuel they need to fly their regular schedules. there is a real kink in the supply line here with this fuel pipeline shut down for five strays days. why is it taking so long to handle this problem? did the attackers gain access to the control systems for the pipeline? in addition to the corporate networks of the company that run it? we don't know. crucial questions. we will have more on this ahead over the course of this hour. we will tell you we are keeping an eye out for a potential statement from the colonial pipeline operator. the white house says that pipeline operator may decide within the next 24 hours whether they are finally ready to fully restart that pipeline. if so, that will, obviously, be the beginning of the end of this
mini crisis. it is an unnerving one, regardless. we are watching that. more on that ahead.   in politics tonight, this is one that i have felt a lot of different ways about all at once. it's either the biggest story in the political world or the littlest tempest in a teapot depending whether you feel like the republican party right now is having its usual periodic moral convulsions, or whether you think they are going through something more extensionally serious for them as a political party, also for us as a two-party democracy. regardless, whether or not you think this is something that will fade or whether this will be a benchmark in history, i have to tell you tonight washington and the political world and the whole political news media for sure is absolutely riveted to this story, which we are also going to see play out over the next 24 hours, in which the republican party is ousting one of its
leaders for the grave crime of condemning the violent january 6th attack on the u.s. capitol by trump supporters for the even more egregious crime of noting the truth that that attack was born out of a lie, that the republican party should stop telling its constituents this lie that somehow it was election fraud that put president biden in the white house and former president trump should be seen as a victim of that fraud who needs to be avenged, should be returned to office because of something wrong with the 2020 election, when in fact there was nothing wrong with the 2020 election. wyoming republican congresswoman ana liss is the third most senior republican in congress due to be ousted tomorrow because she refuses to go along with the lie of the trump era republican party. before this year, before this scandal, i would venture a guess that 99% of us had no idea who
was the number three republican in house leadership. is it that important a job? right? is the turnover of a person to a different person in that job really all that big? maybe not in the abstract. but in this case, the reason that she is being forced out of that job, it absolutely is big news. if this is effectively our public notification of the new rules by which all republicans have to behave, or else. well, that's a story that we have been following as it has been brewing for more than a week now. now tonight on the eve of what is expected to be her ouster from the house leadership, tonight just within the last hour, in advance of that vote to throw her out of her leadership job tomorrow morning, liz cheney got up on the house floor within this past hour and had something to say. she had this to say about her party leadership's devotion to a defeated and disgraced president.
>> today we face a threat america has never seen before. a former president who provoked a violent attack on this capitol in an effort to steal the election has resumed his aggressive effort to convince americans that the election was stolen from him. he risks inciting further violence. millions of americans have been misled by the former president. they have heard only his words, but not the truth, as he continues to undermine our democratic process, sewing seeds of doubt about whether democracy really works at all. i am a conservative republican and the most conservative of conservative principles is reverence for the rule of law. the elecral college was voted, more than 60 state and federal courts, including multiple judges the former president
appointed, have rejected his claims. the trump department of justice investigated the former president's claims of widespread fraud and found no evidence to support them. the election is over. that is the rule of law. that is our constitutional process. those who refuse to accept the rulings of our courts are at war with the constitution. our duty is clear. every one of us who has sworn the oath must act to prevent the unraveling of our democracy. this is not about policy. this is not about partisanship. this is about our duty as americans. remaining silent and ignoring the lie emboldens the liar. i will not participate in that. i will not sit back and watch in silence while others lead our party down a path that abandons the rule of law and joins the
former president's crusade to undermine our democracy. we must speak the truth. our election was not stolen and america has not failed. we must love america so much that we will never yield in her defense. that is our duty. thank you. >> on the eve of a vote that is expected to force her out of her leadership job in the republican party, wyoming congresswoman liz cheney, the daughter, of course, of former vice president dick cheney, speaking within the past few minutes. and remarkable statement. a threat -- we face a threat america has never seen before. a former president who provoked a violent attack on this capitol in an effort to steal the election has resflumd his aggressive effort to convince americans the election was stolen from him. he risks inciting further violence, she says. millions of americans have been misled by the form he president.
he continues to undermine our democratic process sewing seeds of doubt about whether democracy works at all. the election is over. that's the rule of law. that is our constitutional process. she describes the more than 60 state and federal courts, including multiple judges the former president appointed, have rejected his claims. that is the rule of law. that is our constitutional process. those who refuse to accept the rulings of our court are at war with the constitution. this is not about policy. this is not about partisanship. this is about our duty as americans remaining silent and ignoring the lie emboldens the liar. i will not sit back and watch in silence while others lead our party down a path that abandons the rule of law and joins the former president's crusade to undermine our democracy. liz cheney not going quietly as they throw her out of her leadership role, unless they are going to vote to expel her out of congress. she is still going to be the congresswoman from wyoming
whether or not she has a leadership role in name in the republican party. she is claiming a leadership role outside the formal party leadership which apparently requires fealty to this lie about the election and fealty to the former president no matter how outlandish his claims in order to be a nominal leader in the party. and it's been a fascinating it to thing to watch because this has been the chronicle of a political death foretold, right? when we knew liz cheney was teetering in washington, it seems like almost an inevitable conclusion she will be voted out, that there is nothing that can save her. that's just the way the republican party works. you crossed donald trump. you are seen as an enemy of trump and you are politically over it's a question of how long it was being to take and how liz cheney would comport herself while she awaited her inevitable fate.
it seems like she is planning on being loud about it and not -- neither sort of searchering along with this fate, but also not going away, not willing to back down on it. "the washington post" had some fascinating reporting this weekend matched by some reporting from cnbc about how liz cheney doesn't just plan to stay in congress and keep saying what she believes. she plans to escalate as much as she can her battle to try to turn the republican party away from trump and specifically, specifically the trump lie about election fraud having been the story of the 2020 election. so "the washington post" reporting this weekend about cheney's efforts to continue that fight, and the divide, part of what she sees is wrong with the republican party, the divide between her and the other republican leaders in the house.
specifically, "the washington post" described a house republican retreat last month where the party had its officials run through for republican members of congress important internal republican party polling numbers. here's how "the post" explained it. when staff rose explain the party's latest polling in core battleground districts, they left out a key finding about trump's weakness, declining to tie vulge the information even when directly questioned about it. trump's unfavorable ratings were 15 points higher than his favorable ones. his unfavorable were 15 points higher than the favorable ratings in the core districts being discussed. according to the full polling results which were later obtained bit "washington post," nearly twice as many had a unfavorable view. but they left that data out of the presentation they were making to house republican
members because even when their own polling shows in their own house districts where their own members are going be running for re-election shows danger with associating themselves with donald trump, shows dangerous numbers in terms of his unpopularity, they are unwilling to voice those outloud even to their own members because nothing bad can ever be said about donald trump. that's something beyond showing loyalty. that's about willingness to -- willingness to hurt yourself. willingness to inflict political pain on yourself in order to, instead, display this other thing about the former president and the lies he is spinning to his base. and if you listen to -- i think a lot of the beltway press, you would be attempted to believe tomorrow's vote is happening because liz cheney is an insufficiently trumpy
republican, she hasn't supported the trump agenda the past four years, that's absolutely not true. liz cheney voted with donald trump about 93% of the time, whereas the republican who is due to replace liz cheney in her leadership job, a new york republican elise stefanik, she only voted with donald trump 78% of the time. significantly less. in terms of policy, in terms of aligning herself with donald trump, in terms of how trump governed, cheney is much trumpier than elise stefanik. but that's proof this isn't at all about policy. it is about something else. it is about personality and it is about supplication. it's about performative psycho fancy, bending the knee abjectly to donald trump. and in that respect, congresswoman stefanik has passed the test in ways that liz cheney couldn't.
stefanik has emphatically endorsed the big lie about the 2020 election. liz cheney has stood by the obvious truth that joe biden won the 2020 presidential election fair and square. again that vote to replace liz cheney with elise stefanik is expected to happen early tomorrow. joining us now is "washington post" national reporter michael scherer, the lead by-line on that scoop about trump's bad polling numbers being omitted from a presentation the last house republican retreat. a remarkable snapshot into what's going on in the party now. thank you for being here. nice to see you. >> thanks for having me,rachel. >> i mentioned a little bit my own sort of push me/pull you feelings on this story. i do think that it is important and that this may end up being a landmark moment in terms of how the republican party defines itself in the post-trump era. with all the close reporting that you and your colleagues have done on this, how significant do sigh tomorrow's
vote and liz cheney's remarks tonight? >> i think they are significant. you got some of it in the opening there. donald trump wanted to make an example of liz cheney when she voted for impeachment. he sent out aides right away to wyoming to denounce her. he celebrated the republican party in that state when it censured her. he commissioned a poll toshowhow unpopular she was. liz cheney is making clear tonight and i will think you will see it tomorrow and days to come that instead of an example he is getting a rival here and she is going particular this case the distance. i think they are event horizon here is longer than he thought it would be. she is not just looking to the next midterms. i think she will fight very hard for her seat. she may not win it. she will fight hard to win re-election in wyoming. she is looking at this point to sort of carry the flag from a conservative point of view from an old republican point of view of trying to push the party beyond trump.
and in that i think it's a rel threat to the current republican party that house minority leader kevin mccarthy envision. his bet is the way they win the midterms and set themselves up for 2024 is to gloss over these divisions and don't scare the suburban moderates. >> don't scare the trump voters. get everybody to come out holding hands thinking about joe biden's overreach and now they want to check on democratic governance. if liz cheney follows through, that's going to complicate that not just over the next week or two, but through next year. >> what kind of assets and resources and pull does she bring it bear to that kind of a project as compared with some of the other republicans we have seen at least for brief periods try to carry that same banner? we have seen strongly worded at least challenges to the
perception of donald trump as the leader of the party from people like congressman adam kizinger or mitt romney of utah. what does liz cheney bring to this that others that have gone before her haven't? >> i don't think we know the answer to that. there is a half dozen groups out there, more than a half dozen former lawmakers, dozens of former bush aides and campaign strategists who go out every day and say donald trump is bad for the republican party. i think what liz brings, she is a rising star, she has the cheney name, unblemished conservative credentials, she will continue to attack from the right. there won't be a moderate liz cheney that's going to suddenly appear. she will continue to be a fierce opponent of joe biden and she is going to be making in a high-profile way that i think done like adam kinzinger has not been able to do or mitt romney, the conservative case like you saw tonight that what president trump did on the 6th of january, what he is doing in denying the
results of the election are an affront to the fundamentals of what the republican party is. and i think it's to be seen whether she gains traction there. some of it is beyond her control. some polls suggest even though this is still very much trump's party, especially within the mechanisms of the party, there is some dwindling of support in favorability for trump since january among republicans. and it is possible, there is one scenario here where donald trump continues to fight, you know, do what he has tun, maybe finds his way back on to a social network in the coming months, but more and more republicans over the next year decide that maybe it's time to turn the page. if they are looking in that direction, she is going to be there, i think, to sort of give them a voice. now, whether, you know, i don't think we -- anyone can claim that this is anything but a tiny rebellion against, you know,
donald trump's party, and whether it succeeds is very much an open question. >> all right. and it's a very important point, i think, in terms of the length of her event horizon here and how long a game she feels like she can play here and how many resources she can bring to bear. it's a really important way to look at it. "washington post" national reporter michael scherer. thank you so much. >> thank you.   we have got much more ahead here tonight, including a dramatic court ruling out of texas, of all places, that could radically change american politics in one key way. we've got details on that ahead. stay with us. this is our block. our place. our people. our block, it's just like yours. full of the people who shaped you. they all deserve care and access to the vaccine. no matter their address, income, or skin color. not having a ride to get the vaccine.
can't be the reason you don't get it. you wanna help? donate a ride today. >> tech: every customer has their own safelite story. this couple was on a camping trip... ...when their windshield got a chip. they drove to safelite for a same-day repai and with their insurance, it was no cost to them. >> woman: really? >> tech: that's service you can trust. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ ♪ when i was young ♪ no-no-no-no-no please please no. ♪ i never needed anyone. ♪ front desk. yes, hello... i'm so... please hold. ♪ those days are done. ♪ i got you. ♪ all by yourself. ♪ go with us and find millions of flexible options. all in our app. expedia. it matters who you travel with. obsession has many names, this is ours.
the lexus is. all in on the sports sedan. lease the 2021 is 300 for $369 a month for 36 months. experience amazing, at your lexus dealer. bipolar depression. it's a dark, lonely place. this is art inspired by real stories of people living with bipolar depression. emptiness. a hopeless struggle. the lows of bipolar depression can disrupt your life and be hard to manage. latuda could make a real difference in your symptoms. latuda was proven to significantly reduce bipolar depression symptoms, and in clinical studies, had no substantial impact on weight. now i'm feeling connected. empowered. latuda is not for everyone. call your doctor about unusual mood changes, behaviors or suicidal thoughts. antidepressants can increase these in children, teens, and young adults. elderly dementia patients on latuda have an increased risk of death or stroke. call your doctor about fever, stiff muscles, and confusion, as these may be life-threatening, or uncontrollable muscle movements as these may be permanent.
these are not all the serious side effects. this is where i want to be. talk to your doctor and ask if latuda could make the difference you've been looking for in your bipolar depression symptoms. wanna help kids get their homework done? you've been looking for well, an internet connection's a good start. but kids also need computers. and sometimes the hardest thing about homework is finding a place to do it. so why not hook community centers up with wifi? for kids like us, and all the amazing things we're gonna learn. over the next 10 years, comcast is committing $1 billion to reach 50 million low-income americans
with the tools and resources they need to be ready for anything. i hope you're ready. 'cause we are.   former president trump is facing criminal investigations from prosecutors in two states. in new york state the investigation concerns multiple
allegations of business and financial fraud. in georgia the criminal investigation concerns potentially illegal election interference by the former president. that same prosecutor's office in georgia, state prosecutors in georgia have brought just a battleship of an indictment against the 22-year-old defendant who is charged with killing eight people at three different atlanta-area day spas a few weeks ago, in march. this indictment today alleges that the defendant chose his victims in part on the basis of their sex and race. so hate crimes charges have been brought against him. of the eight people he is alleged to have killed, seven of the eight were women, six of the seven killed were of asian descent. prosecutors are going to seek the death penalty against him with these enhanced hate crime charges layered on top of multiple murder counts. this is not the federal justice department.
these are state charges brought by state prosecutors in georgia. it's striking because georgia republicans in the state legislature there responded themselves to that gun massacre back in march by moving almost immediately after that horrific mass shooting to loosen gun laws even further in that state. just -- it was a remarkable thing at the time. a mass killing by a gunman who reportedly purchased the weapon he used in the killings just hours before he went out and shot and killed all of those people. georgia republicans responded to that by loosening georgia gun laws even more. apparently, they wanted to move quickly after that gun massacre to smooth the path for the next guy who plans to spend his day that way in georgia. just incredible. on that same front, big, big news late today, big bad news for the entity more responsible than any other person, place, or thing in america for our country becoming the most heavily armed
nation on earth. for america becoming in our time the land of multiple mass civilian shootings every single day. today's bad news for the national rifle association, for the nra, happened in a north texas courtroom, and the ruling from the judge is one of those i started highlighting on page one and then ran out of highlighter. it's just, i mean, this is one of those rulings that, you know, serves the definitive legal purpose. it's written so clearly and so bluntly, it has the effect of just explaining this whole thing to the public, too, to those of us who have been watching this case in particular and wondering if this might be finally the start of the end of the nra. let's me read from the start of the ruling. united states you bankruptcy is i court, northern district of texas, dallas division, in re national rifle association of america, united states bankruptcy judge harlen dwayne hale.
this is the judge's order. the national rifle association of america, the nra, is a 150-year-old organization. they are the nation's foremost zefder. second amendment of the u.s. constitution. in recent years it has become apparent that the nra was suffering if inadequate governance and internal controls. the attorney general for the state of new york conducted a 15 month long investigation of the nra that according to the attorney general revealed widespread misuse of assets by the nra's executive vice president wayne lapierre and his circle of insiders for their own personal benefit. nine months ago the new york attorney general filed a lawsuit seeking ditlution, the dissolving of the national rifle association based on allegations that the nra has conducted business in persistently illegal manner and abused its powers by operating without effective oversight or control, and number two, the directors or members in
control of the nra have looted or wasted the corporate assets, have perpetuated the corporation solely for their personal benefit or acted in an illegal, oppression i have or fraudulent manner. seeking the bankruptcy of the code to preserve itself in the face of litigation that argues poses an existential threat. . the question the court is faced with is whether the existential threat facing the nra is the type of threat that the bankruptcy code is meant to protect against. the court believes it is not. the judge continues, quote, for the reasons stated herein, the court finds there is cause to dismiss this bankruptcy case as not having been filed in good faith, both because it was filed to gain an unfair litigation advantage and because it was filed to avoid state regulation. so this is a bankruptcy court ruling out of federal court,
federal bankruptcy court in texas. very bad news for the nra. therefore, it's potentially huge news for whether the united states of america is ever going to deal with an ongoing and ever worsening plague of gun violence like no country has seen in history of the world. just that. no biggie. but what happened here in this case is that the nra had the ancient misfortune to be founded right after the civil war back in 1871 in york state. it's not headquartered in new york state anymore. it hasn't been for a long while. that's where it was founded and that's where it its charter as a non-profit in new york state. it is, therefore, regulated as a non-profit under new york state law. and among other things, new york state law says you can't loot the place to line your own pockets if you are running a non-profit in the state of new york. in august of last year attorney general james brought a lawsuit against the nra on the basis of
new york state law and her case alleged that the nra was so corrupt that its executives were self-dealing and spending money on themselves and their cronethys to a flagrant and wanton extent that state of new york was going to use state law to dissolve them, to demand restitution to the tune of tens of millions of dollars from specific named nra executives that the state says were involved in the corruption. so a bunch of whistleblower claims. a bunch of investigative long n investigation is how and why we have learned in recent months while your lovable, rabid gun fan nra member great uncle has been scraping together his hard-earned cash to send had in his dues so he can make sure he has his nra sticker on his bumper, what the nra has been
spending your uncle's actual money on is like italian silk suits that are literally $275,000 worth of amazing italian suits for one nra executive. one nra executive. he had the nra pay for these after he personally selected them at a beverly hills boutique. it's one thing to read in the newspaper about that kind of thing allegedly happening at the nra. it's another thing in this trial to have it all confirmed and to get to hear that nra executive, wayne lapierre, try to make it sound okay, that this is what what nra dues paying members were actually, in the end, paying for. >> now, mr. lapierre, you are familiar with the store in beverly hills, california, called zina? >> i am. >> and you'll see here on exhibit 33 the, did you ever see
exhibit 339 before today? >> yes, i have seen this. >> and do you know under what circumstances -- the -- the letter represents -- it involves clothing purchases by ackerman mcqueen on your behalf. and in the letter, mr. winkler says they wore -- your ward -- we need to address your wardrobe, rur requirement to provide specifically purchases in zina in beverly hills, california. do you see that? >> i do. >> due to the substantial nature of the tote ago, this dollar number of 274,65.03, do you see that? >> i do. >> and attached is a list of purchases by date and amount. do you see that on the back? >> i do see that. >> all right.
and did you receive from the zina store clothing in the value of $274,695.03 paid for by ackerman mcqueen. >> i never saw the receipts. >> you didn't pay for the suits, correct? >> correct. >> so the suits were a gift, correct? >> no. >> okay. >> they were work wardrobe. >> they were work wardrobe. $274,695.03 that wayne lapierre required us to provide specifically in purchases from this one store in beverly hills, california. $274,695 worth of suits bought for wayne lapierre from the nra but it was for work. either that or the uniform jumpsuits with the name on the patch. we decided that $275,000 worth
of italian silk suits would be a better use of nra dues-paying members' money. so that's what wayne got for himself. that was just one piece of it. my work wardrobe. doesn't everybody get a work wardrobe like that? $275,000 worth of italian suits. also using dues to pay for repeated jet trips to and from various family homes and the bahamas. also conflicts of interest, which also always seemed to result in a little something nice for wayne, like the guy whose firm wayne lapierre signed off on, receiving contracts worth millions of dollars in payments from the nra after that same guy repeatedly let wayne stay on his 108-foot yacht, which included a full crew, a chef, some jet skis and an extra smaller boat that like rode along on top of the giant yacht.
thanks, nra, dues paying members. wayne meant sure your money went to that guy. that guy let wayne use his yacht with the crew and the chef. when the nra -- when this started to get exposed, when the nra got caught for this stuff in this corruption and self-dealing scandal, wayne, that same executive, the guy with the suits and the private jet trips for his family and the yacht vacation bribes and the rest of it, he came up with what he was sure was an escape hatch. he thought that he had come up with a get out of jail free card for the nra. he thought he came up with a magic trick that would prevent the nra from getting shut down by the attorney general of new york state. at least he thought that is what he had discovered. what he tried is he tried to declare bankruptcy, to basically dissolve the nra on their own terms in new york and then they would reincorporate themselves
in texas, where i guess wayne thought, you know, state law wouldn't be used against him no matter how many more suits he bought with nra members' dues. well, today this federal judge in bankruptcy court in texas ruled that escape hatch doesn't work for this. there is no escape hatch for the nra. avoiding getting in trouble for running your supposed charity like you were auditioning for the live wikipedia word embezzlement, that's not what bankruptcy court is for. you can't use it for a shield against the kind of litigation that new york state is bringing to bear against nra, which they are -- against the nra which they are going to use to shut the nra down. here's judge hale again. based on the statements of counsel and the evidence of record, the court finds that the primary purpose of this bankruptcy filing was to avoid potential dissolution of the nra and the new york attorney general's case. the court is saying that they
can make the required showing to obtain dissolution of the nra, but this court is saying that the bankruptcy code does not provide a sanctuary from this kind of threat. he says, quote, this is not an appropriate use of bankruptcy. he concludes, this constitutes cause for dismissal. so the nra's effort to declare themselves bankrupt and thereby escape what is waiting for them in new york state has failed. the nra can not declare itself bankrupt to avoid being potentially shut down by the attorney general of new york. escape hatch closed. that means the case against the nra now continues with them clearly having no get out of jail free card. it also means the brutal politics of guns in this country are likely to never be the same. wealth is your first big investment. worth is a partner to help share the load. wealth is saving a little extra. worth is knowing it's never too late to start - or too early.
♪ ♪ wealth helps you retire. worth is knowing why. ♪ ♪ principal. for all it's worth. [tv announcer] come on down to our appliance superstore where we've got the best deals on refrigerators, microwaves, gas ranges and grills. and if you're looking for... [music: "i swear"] jaycee tried gain flings for the first time the other day... where we've got the best deals on refrigerators, microwaves, and forgot where she was. you can always spot a first time gain flings user. ♪ [sfx: psst psst] allergies don't have to be scary. spraying flonase daily stops your body from overreacting
to allergens all season long. psst! psst! all good >> tech: every customer has their own safelite story. this couple was on a camping trip... ...when their windshield got a chip. they drove to safelite for a same-day repair. and with their insurance, it was no cost to them. >> woman: really? >> tech: that's service you can trust. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ ♪ ♪ there's more to a yard than freshly cut grass. (sounds of mower cutting grass) there's real life. full of twists and turns, and some shenanigans too. which is exactly why we built these mowers, to clear the way for stuff like this, right here. run with us, because the best yards are planted with real memories. nothing runs like a deere. search john deere mowers for more. in business, it's never just another day. it's the big sale, or the big presentation. the day where everything goes right. or the one where nothing does. with comcast business
you get the network that can deliver gig speeds to the most businesses and advanced cybersecurity to protect every device on it— all backed by a dedicated team, 24/7. every day in business is a big day. we'll keep you ready for what's next. comcast business powering possibilities. like you, my hands are everything to me. but i was diagnosed with dupuytren's contracture. and it got to the point where things i took for granted got tougher to do. thought surgery was my only option. turns out i was wrong. so when a hand specialist told me about nonsurgical treatments, it was a total game changer. like you, my hands have a lot more to do. learn more at factsonhand.com today. is your family ready for an emergency? you can prepare by mapping out two ways to escape your home, creating a supply kit, and including your whole family in practice drills. for help creating an emergency plan, visit safetyactioncenter.pge.com
♪ ♪ ♪ for help creating an emergency plan, ♪ ♪ ♪ deposit, plan and pay with easy tools from chase. simplicity feels good. chase. make more of what's yours. a little preparation will make you and your family safer in an emergency. a week's worth of food and water, radio, flashlight, batteries and first aid kit are a good start to learn more, visit safetyactioncenter.pge.com   gun safety groups have been celebrating today's thunder clap
ruling against the nra by a federal judge in texas who ruled that the nra cannot escape a new york lawsuit that aims to end the organization, that aims to dissolve it as an organization. the nra had tried to declare bankruptcy to avoid that fate. a judge blocked that, no, they can't do it. the president of every town for gun safety said in response, quote, today's disastrous decision for the nra shows that they can't even file for bankruptcy correctly, which doesn't bode well for the lawsuits and investigations they must now face. shanann watts, founder of moms demand action, we showed the world the nra could be taken on and beaten. not only by exposing them but by notching victories in statehouses, school boards, city councils and board rooms. the nra got its clock cleaned in court, but the gun safety movement is stronger than ever. joining us is shanann watts after the sandy hook shooting she pushed for stronger gun safety laws. she has been following this nra
trial very closely. nice to see you. we spoke at the outset of this trial. i have been looking forward to hearing your reaction to today's ruling. >> you know, i would offer the nra high thoughts and prayers. as the judge found out today, the only faith the nra is bad faith. and this filing for bankruptcy ended up just being a disaster and a clossial mistake for the nra. it was a hail mary to avoid accountability. the court saw through it. they properly dismissed for lack of merit. it's a victory for the accountability of the nra and the rule of law. >> the executives who are named in the new york lawsuit include wayne lapierre, who has been the public head of the nra for a long time now. he is also ascribed much of the sort of egroejous financial mismanagement alleged in the new york case against the group. if that new york case is successful, not only would the
nra be dissolved as an organization, but mr. lapierre would be -- they would be seeking millions of dollars in essentially restitution from him and he would be banned from ever holding this kind of gig ever again in any sort of non-profit. it does feel like the stakes are as high as they could possibly be for the people who have been running that corner of the pro-gun anti-gun reform movement. >> absolutely. the nra used to be a power broker. now they are just broken. the road ahead of them has gotten so much harder. they have to fight these various litigations across the country against former donors, angry vendors. >> and they also have to face lawsuits from the new york attorney general, the d.c. attorney general, and this news really comes at the very worst time for the nra because the discussion about background checks in the senate is just heating up. and so it will be onerous, if
not impossible, for them to lobby lawmakers while fighting court battles and their mounting debt. do you think that the background check legislation has a path through the united states senate? >> a.j. i do. we are having positive conversation was lawmakers on both sides of the aisle. this is something 90% of americans support. 89% of gun owners. one in ten belongs to the nra. 87% of republicans. this return to normal after covid also means the return of shooting tragedies across the country. it is time after 25 years for congress to act. it's the right president, the right congress and we are going to make sure this gets done. >> shanann watts, the founder of moms demand action, thanks for being here tonight. now this bankruptcy ruling means the new york cases are going ahead, i imagine, we will be
tracking that with you in days ahead. >> looking forward to it. thank you. >> more ahead. stay with us tonight. powerful c. claritin-d improves nasal airflow two times more than the leading allergy spray at hour one. [ deep inhale ] claritin-d. get more airflow. hey lily, i need a new wireless plan for my business, but all my employees need something different. oh, we can help with that. okay, imagine this... your mover, rob, he's on the scene and needs a plan with a mobile hotspot. we cut to downtown, your sales rep lisa has to send some files, asap! so basically i can pick the right plan for each employee... yeah i should've just led with that... with at&t business... you can pick the best plan for each employee and only pay for the features they need.
cal: our confident forever plan is possible with a cfp® professional. a cfp® professional can help you build a complete financial plan. visit letsmakeaplan.org to find your cfp® professional. ♪♪ >> tech: every customer has their own safelite story. vithis couple was onorg to fina camping trip...ssional. ...when their windshield got a chip. they drove to safelite for a same-day repair. and with their insurance, it was no cost to them. >> woman: really? >> tech: that's service you can trust. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪
are the color cartridges in your printer ready for another school year? what's cyan mean? it means "cyan-ora" honor roll. the epson ecotank. no more cartridges. it comes with an incredible amount of ink. just fill and chill. ♪ ♪ ♪
♪ ♪ ♪ hey google, turn up the heat. ♪ ♪ ♪ clara heard gain scent beads could make her gain scent last way longer. but she wouldn't believe it until she sniffed it. so, when her sheets still smelt amazing days later, she was surprised! the more nights that go by, the more surprised she gets! her husband ron, he's plenty surprised too. try gain scent beads for scent that lasts longer than detergent alone. guaranteed!* ♪ ♪ ♪ common love isn't for us ♪ ♪ we created something phenomenal ♪ ♪ don't you agree? ♪
♪ don't you agree? ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ow! ♪

this is our block. our place. our people. watch the curb. not having a ride to get the vaccine. can't be the reason you don't get it. you wanna help? donate a ride today. experience capability, crafted by lexus. the remarkable gx and lx. lease the 2021 gx 460 for $529 a month for 36 months.
experience amazing, at your lexus dealer. bipolar depression. it's a dark, lonely place. this is art inspired by real stories of people living with bipolar depression. emptiness. a hopeless struggle. the lows of bipolar depression can disrupt your life and be hard to manage. latuda could make a real difference in your symptoms. latuda was proven to significantly reduce bipolar depression symptoms, and in clinical studies, had no substantial impact on weight. now i'm feeling connected. empowered. latuda is not for everyone. call your doctor about unusual mood changes, behaviors or suicidal thoughts. antidepressants can increase these in children, teens, and young adults. elderly dementia patients on latuda have an increased risk of death or stroke. call your doctor about fever, stiff muscles, and confusion, as these may be life-threatening, or uncontrollable muscle movements as these may be permanent. these are not all the serious side effects. this is where i want to be. talk to your doctor and ask
if latuda could make the difference you've been looking for in your bipolar depression symptoms. ♪ when i was young ♪ no-no-no-no-no please please no. ♪ i never needed anyone. ♪ front desk. yes, hello... i'm so... please hold. ♪ those days are done. ♪ i got you. ♪ all by yourself. ♪ go with us and find millions of flexible options. all in our app. expedia. it matters who you travel with. when it comes to laundry, everyone thinks their way is the right way. i wash on delicate. i just stuff everything in. you have to wash on cold, because it saves energy. the secret is, tide pods work no matter how you wash. so, everyone is right. it's got to be tide. this is our block. our place. our people. watch the curb. not having a ride to get the vaccine. can't be the reason you don't get it.
you wanna help? donate a ride today.
if ifr been glowing a little green on your tv screen tonight, it's not a bad green, it's professional jealousy. i am a loving colleague, but i am also green with envy because tomorrow night the one and only lawrence o'donnell has a special with president biden. it is a town hall on vaccinating america. it's tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. eastern. he will also be joined by hhs secretary javier bacerra and by vaccine developer