there is a lot going on tonight in washington. a lot of moving parts. just this hour on capitol hill a lot of stuff that we are going to see develop, we think over the course of this hour while we are on their. now, at the very end of last nightshow, you might remember, we showed you some footage. that we got in just at the last second that we got off the air. from last night's congressional baseball game. this game happens every year. it's been going on for over a century. it's supposed to encourage commodity, in lawmakers. how is that going? if [laughs] but these games are supposed to if these games are supposed to be some kind of be some kind of a rescue respite from the pressures of from the pressures of capitol hill, last capitol
hill, last night there was an night there was an interruption in that interruption in that respite, respite. at least for some [laughs] at least. during the game for some, during the a group of game, fairly cheerful some very chilly but determines protesters role but determined protesters drop, dropped these banners. these banners. that very that very much much reminded the reminded the baseball players of their day jobs. baseball players of their day jobs. signs read, that way like you just saw, reconciliation first, hold the line. meaning pass the reconciliation bill, passed the presidents budget first. hold the line don't give. also, there's this one that we showed you, our lives are not a game. past 3.5 trillion. that's for the 3.5 trillion dollar build back better plan. the reconciliation bill, president biden's budget bill. there's also one other banner that was perhaps a little less cheery, at the very top of the screen, democrats don't at this up. all those messages, aimed at democrats last night, ahead of the pivotal vote, or votes, that are scheduled to take today. the really pivotal one of which were waiting for them to take
this hour. now house speaker nancy pelosi said that she is holding a vote today on the small bipartisan roads in bridges bill, that has already passed the senate. this is a little slice of president biden's agenda, that was hived off from the main budget by a couple of conservative democratic senators. because they wanted to pass some piece of something with some republican votes. and this was the only little piece of this that any republicans would consent to support. progressives in the house say that they're only going to vote for that little bill, if the centrist vote for the big bill to. they said listen, we don't necessarily like the little bill. in fact we think that if it passes alone it might make climate change work. this is not our kind of thing. this is not what democrats were sent to congress to do. but we will do it. we will vote for it. as long as the centrist vote for the big budget bill to.
especially because the centrist by and large they say that they support the component parts of the big budget bill as well. and that idea will pass them together. will pass the two bills in tandem. it is a two track process, they are both going to go, or neither. that was actually an agreement that the two sides appeared to have reached this summer, and it was explicit. the leadership, even the president talked about it, explicitly, that this was the ground on which they were going to move forward. but now it is the fall. the sudden traits, the conservatives, apparently no longer want to do that. so now we are facing a very little prospect that neither of these bills are going to pass. the progressives have said from the very beginning we are not going to pass one without the other. we are very happy to do both, but we are not just going to pass your priority if you are not going to support us on ours. now the centers for their part say, what do they say?
because these two conservative democratic senators joe manchin, of west virginia and kristen sinema of west virginia. they now basically alone have been dragging out negotiations on the larger budget bill for weeks and weeks, with no apparent progress, and no real bottom line or finish line that either of them seem able to articulate in public. and that is why just tonight the spirit of last night's congressional baseball game took to the potomac. several of senator joe manchin's constituents from west virginia voted up to him today. they paddled a kayak up to the hospital where senator joe manchin lives when he is in washington. do you see him in the back of the boat there? the constituents are in the kayak, and in the little boat. and they have voted, is that the word? they have voted in themselves up to him to the back of his vote to talk to him, to plead to him, to get on board with the budget. to get on board with president
biden's agenda. you can see here that these kayakers on his houseboat, are at one point in the video that we've seen of this, ask them where they are from. and they shut out the places in west virginia where they are from. and what they did this evening was basically asked him why he he is not supporting the presidents agenda. why he is not supporting the president's build back better plan. and what is he going to do for the incredible and intractable members of poverty in west virginia. what about expanding medicare? wouldn't that be good for everyone? and lowering drug prices which he says he saw in favor of. but why not actually vote for something that will get it done? and what about taxing the rich which -- the conservative ones and tonight with the sky activists he told them all that he was on board with all of those things. even though he is also saying today that he will only accept a bill that is less than half the size what the president wants. somehow though, he tells these constituents of his that he is
still on board with all of the things that they want. at one point he tells them we are on the same page. and one of them shops to him, no we are not. again even showing up on his floating house, a cheerful but persistent group. we are going to follow you home. this really matters. folks in your home state. again, that was just tonight earlier this evening. and i think credit to senator manchin for engaging with them. being willing to talk to them about it, even if they didn't agree that they were in fact on the same page since he is not going to vote for all the things that he said he is for. but people are getting creative. that is a west virginia nautical interception of their senator to try and press him on this point. and you know, this is the kind of remarkable thing about where we are today. you see that sort of creativity because the stakes are so high, and because people are so exasperated in trying to figure out what these conservative senators are actually trying to get other than just attention.
today the united states government, came within a few hours of having to shut down. this was the last possible day for congress to pass the bill to keep the government open, to keep the lights on, to keep government workers on their job. because of work republican resistance to doing that, because republicans have just been refusing to vote to keep the government running, congress really was pushed up right to the edge of this cliff today. it was only after the last minute that they did pass a bill to avoid a government shutdown. and president biden has signed it tonight. congress just barely kept themselves from tumbling over that cliff to. and the remarkable thing that in normal times that would be the biggest and most dramatic vote on capitol hill. certainly all week, definitely all month. maybe even more than that. cliff-hanger showdown vote keeps u.s. federal government alive with only hours to spare. that is big news in any congress. big news in any political year. but this time the vote to avert a federal government shutdown was not even the most dramatic
thing that happened on capitol hill today. it didn't even count as quality drama in congress today. it was like oh we're not shutting the government down tonight at midnight? okay we have to actually move on. we made it through that sticky wicket, there's a whole croquet set left to get through. that was something they dispensed with today without much [inaudible] . so they could turn to the real main event today. the wickets are still sticking. the one we are still waiting for tonight is of course the vote on this infrastructure bill. the roads and bridges bill, the bipartisan smaller pete of the president's agenda. now nancy pelosi, the democratic speaker of the house, she does not bring bills to the floor that are not going to pass. at least she does not bring those to the floor that she intends to pass if they are not going to pass. she is not known for their being surprises in her ten year running the house, that is kind of her trademark and she pride to self honor. but she has insisted that she is going to bring the small
roads and bridges bill to the floor tonight. and meanwhile progressives in the house have been just as insistent that they are going to vote it down. unless, or until, joe manchin and kyrsten sinema and thereby a majority of the u.s. senate agree to vote the rest of president brightens agenda through. they say listen, we are not going to do this unless we do them both. and among those who rise to joe manchin's defense, it is often pointed out that senator manchin represents a very right straight, voted for donald trump by nearly over 40 points. joe manchin is a unique political position. and a lot of issues that may not be true. but he actually does not apply here. this is something that you can check. president biden's build back better bill, the big three and a half trillion dollar thing that they are calling this reconciliation package, is extremely popular in joe
manchin's home state. senator manchin's home state paper, just reported that yet another pull bearing that out 48% of registered voters and west virginia say they support president biden's plan, according to this latest poll. but that is only before you really explain it to them. quote after poll voters were given the option of raising taxes on the richest americans and corporations, while closing the loopholes that have caused significant wealth disparities, which in fact is how biden budget is paid for, when people are informed that that is how the whole thing is going to be financed support for the plan arising from 48% to as high as 70%. oh, the more people in west virginia learn about how this is and how it works and how democrats would structured, and how president biden wanted, the more they love. it yes, trump may have won that state by 40, point but they like biden's budget to the tune of 70%. the director of one west virginia activist group telling the paper today that west virginia, should rest assured that west virginia will have his back if you vote for
president biden budget. like his constituents west virginia who kayaked up to his both today. to plead with him to support the bill. and he did again to his credit have along back and forth with them tonight. so that is one reason that the vast majority of democrats in west virginia are intent on passing the presidents agenda and getting it done intact and quickly. it is just super popular with voters. it is popular in west virginia, it is popular nationwide, it is popular yes among democrats, it is popular among self consign republicans and conservative. but the other reason democrats want to get this done is because they don't want this thing to drag on for months. they certainly do not want to pass a small roads and bridges bill, and watch the larger biden legislation, all of his other economic agenda items for his first term as president language in this negotiation. they have a big legislation like this, delaying means
death. we had congresswoman alexandria cortez gia here, and she had special interest in washington have been working to get this small roads and bridges here past. while trying to put off the larger bill in order to give them more time to kill it. the longer it gets put off, the more time the lobbyists and special interests have to tear it apart. the private away from it. time is not on the side of the democrats, it never is. and again the vast majority of democrats in congress agree and want to get the whole biden agenda passed. question tonight, right now, is when and how? joining us now is nbc news national political reporter is sahil kapur, it's great to see you my, friend thank you so much for joining us to help us sort out everything as the night gets older. >> absolutelyrachelgreat to be here. >> so the latest that i know, and i will put this to you it may have been surpassed -- the latest i know is that tonight senator sanders, came
out of a meeting in chuck schumer's office and told reporters that he is urging the house to vote no, on the roads and bridges bill tonight. vote no on the infrastructure bill tonight if there is a vote. he said he is unhappy about these late night closed door talks. that seems significant given what a driving force the progressives have been in the house, i want a progressive icon senator sanders is, not only in the country but to progressive democrats on capitol hill. is that significant? what do we think is going to happen? >> it is significantrachel. senator sanders says that this is an absurd way to do business that was a direct quote from him, that they are trying to negotiate a multi trillion dollar deal in one night so they can have a vote on the infrastructure bill. he does not believe that that bill should go forward to a vote today. and if it comes to a vote, he's urging his colleagues to vote no. now that is significant because there are a lot of house progressives that look up to him and respect him and that from the senate is significant. and what happens tonight is highly unclear.
officially the house of representatives are saying no votes until 10 pm but there is still an expectation that they will pass the infrastructure bill tonight. which means two hours to pass the bill. it is not scheduled yet, i'll leave it to your viewers to do the math on what is most likely to have been there, but as you correctly point out speaker pelosi does not have bills on the floor that doesn't have the votes. but she has made a promise to her centrist members that she will do what she can to get the votes here and that is what all these wranglers and all this long drawn of drama is about. she is trying to find a way to do that, so far based on everything i'm hearing there is not a deal to be have had at this moment to get this bill done. tonight and they are going to vote it down if it comes. up >> so he'll let me ask you about one thing that seems rational to me but it doesn't seem to be a live prospect on capitol hill and you could just tell me why while i'm reading this. it seems to me like the progressives are correct and there are assessments that the small roads and bridges bill passes, that bipartisan infrastructure bill, the chances that biden's larger agenda the big three and a half
trillion dollar bill will ever pass, the mission misses significantly. the best chance of getting it done is for that more conservative bill on the larger more progressive bill to move together. if i were to house republican leader, i would look at that and say, you know what let's let enough house republican votes for this, again lots of republicans like that. legislation lets another republican vote for this, that it passes. because we don't mind this bill, it's fairly conservative bill it lines up with a lot of conservative priorities, and we can thereby remove all the leverage the progressives have, the larger bill will never pass. this whole well with a waste of time for the democrats. and will get something to brag about next week, next year. for our reelection campaigns in our home state. why is that not alive possibility? that seems rational to me? i actually had a similar thought,rachel, a few hours ago. why aren't republican leaders providing some votes to pass the infrastructure bill. that would undercut the goal of house progressives if they do pass this tonight. the progressive position, their
fear as you point out, is if the infrastructure bill passes than centrist democrats in the house in the senate will bolt. they will say, we didn't commit to doing this other thing. or we would like to shrink it, cut it in half. centralist democrats said that's not what they're planning to do. congressman josh gottheimer has been pushing for the vote. he said he's committed to reconciliation. bill the progressives are lest -- their more worried about centrist democratic senators, two in particular. kristen sinema and joe manchin. manchin came out with his plan for the first time today, his price tag publicly at least, 1.5 trillion dollars. which is a far cry from the three and a half trillion that the vast majority of democrats. once senator cinema has not so ever number is. she's not given any number at all. that opaqueness is only reaffirming the desire among progress is to hold up the infrastructure bill. among republicans, there's a group called the problem solvers caucus in the house of representatives, months ago endorsed this framework.
the republican co-chair, of that, brian fitzpatrick, told me a few hours ago that he's a yes on this bill. but he does not know where the other 27 republicans in the group stand. it's a strange situation where republicans can undercut progressives, instead with they're doing is actually strengthening and handing it to the oppressive caucus by handing it to the. bill >> if they could see beyond the partisan lens, if they could see to the longer term partisan advantage here, rather than in a short term instincts. they can actually deal a real ploy to the progressive cause here. i feel like they're not wired to do that kind of, to play that kind of checkers. we shall see. nbc news political reporter, i have a feeling we'll be back with the u.s. things evolve over the course of the next few hours. thanks for your time. >> thank you.rachel>> again we are watching, live developments on capitol hill right now, as it looks like democrats may not heading toward taking a vote tonight, on this slice of president
biden's agenda. progressive system must move in tandem with the big president biden budget bill, that contains the rest of his economic agenda for his presidency. this is been a standoff by democrats that has been a opaque, from a lot of different quarters. will try to penetrate some of that opacity tonight. plus we have lots more to cover. stay with us. it's a busy evening here. stay with us it's a busy evening here it's a busy evening here with pronamel repair toothpaste, we can help actively repair enamel in its weakened state. it's innovative. my go to toothpaste is going to be pronamel repair. my go to toothpaste you need an ecolab scientific clean here. and you need it here. and here. and here. which is why the scientific expertise that helps operating rooms stay clean is now helping the places you go every day too.
seek a commitment to clean. look for the ecolab science certified seal. ♪ (vo) subaru presents... the underdogs. they may have lost an eye, or their hearing, or their youthful good looks. but there's a lot of things these remarkable dogs haven't lost... like their ability to lick, wag, and love with the best of them. join subaru in helping underdogs find a loving home and celebrate all dogs during our third annual national make a dog's day. are you taking a statin drug to reduce cholesterol? it can also deplete your coq10 levels. i recommend considering qunol coq10 along with your statin medication. the brand i trust is qunol. still fresh unstopables in-wash scent booster
downy unstopables one, two! one, two, three! only pay for what you need! with customized car insurance from liberty mutual! nothing rhymes with liberty mutual. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪
and there you have it- woah. wireless on the most reliable network nationwide. wow. -big deal! ...we get unlimited for just 30 bucks. sweet, i get that too and mine has 5g included. that's cool, but ours save us serious clam-aroonies. relax people, my wireless is crushing it. that's because you all have xfinity mobile with your internet. it's wireless so good, it keeps one upping itself. in the words of the great
britney spears, oops it happened again. today we learned that the secretary of state's office in idaho, has gone out on a donald trump stolen election wild goose chase. at the behest, michael indulge the wealthy ceo of my pillow company, who has made a whole new career for himself as a full-time promoter of the conspiracy theory, that the last presidential election shouldn't count and donald trump judges be allowed back into the late house can we all agree.
in the presidential election, idaho was not exactly a close call. trump beat biden in idaho by more than 30 points. but still apparently, mr. pillow, it is bothered by that margin. he got in touch recently with the idaho state government to tell, them that 30% is not enough, that he is sure that trump won by tons more than that in idaho. but for some reason somebody bothered to shave down trump's margin of victory, in every county in idaho, so he'd only win by 30 plus points. every county was hacked, mr. pillow guy says he can prove it and he demands an investigation, and an explanation from the state. at one level that's kind of par for the course. this is this guy's new job, in this is the kind of thing he asked for, that's adorable. but idaho decided, that if the pillow guy was gonna make this kind of allegation, than the actual state governments, the secretary of state's office, should expend resources,
taxpayer dollars, from the good people of idaho, in order to officially investigate, what's the pillow guy says. in so they did, even though it sounds like they kind of knew from the beginning, that this was going to be fully. the idaho secretary of state's office saying in a statement, once we had the document and hand, from mr. linda, we immediately believe there was something amiss. this document alleged electronic manipulation in all 44 counties in idaho. but at least seven counties in idaho have no electronic steps in their vote counting processes. quote, that was a huge red flag, yeah you think? your computers were hacked, and i the pillow man can prove it. okay sir, but you know we have no computers rights? >> is that weird, is that gonna be an issue? is it possible you hacked my hand as i was counting on it? nevertheless the idaho secretary of state's office
said they would recanvas two of idaho's counties, where the pillow person said that donald trump had so many of his votes switched to biden votes. they did a hand recanvas of the physical votes, in order to test the pillow guy's theory, that the magic computer machines had stolen the election, even though they were not used in these counties. they did the re-canvas, in these two idaho counties, it was completed. between the two counties, the number of votes cast for joe biden, changed by zero. the official certified count was in fact, the same number for how many biden votes that were in those two idaho counties. now, the number of votes cast for donald trump however in those two counties, looks like that might have been a little high. after the re-canvassing of those two counties, at the insistence of the pillow guy, who's trying to prove how trump was robbed, after the re-canvassing of those two idaho counties, donald trump's vote total in those two counties declined, by eight.
so donald trump's margin of victory takes a little hit, in idaho. drops by eight votes. biden did a little better than expected. we now know, thanks to a trump election conspiracy promoters, getting these random rural idaho counties to keep redoing their vote counts in the hopes that if you dig deep enough there, there will finally be a pony. or hugo chavez, or piles of bamboo or whatever it is. we reported earlier this week, on a deposition, conducted under oath, and transcribed, a deposition of trump lawyer rudy giuliani. in which mr. giuliani amidst under oath, that when he started spreading these conspiracy theories about voting machines being used to steal the election for joe biden, he actually had no idea whether the things he was saying were true or not. he didn't look up anything to try to check these allegations. he did concede that he might have read some facebook posts,
that led him to make these claims. but he couldn't quite remember, he also conceded he didn't talk to any of these supposed witnesses he cited, and sources for these claims. he did not investigate or literally even look up or read anything about why he was alleging, he just put it out there to see what might happen. this is from the deposition. as i'm hearing your testimony, and terms of eyes on information about the voting systems, we have some media reports that you generally describe, and then you look to some facebook postings that you described. answer for mr. giuliani, i don't remember if it was facebook. that was social media post get all one to me. facebook, instagram, twitter. social media postings? answer. i think it was facebook. question. anything else that you laid eyes on? answer. right now, i can't recall anything else that i laid eyes on. i may be looked at facebook when i was coming up with that stuff, i don't remember, which
is facebook? is that the moment a little bird? okay sir, and what about the bombshell source that you said you had? who had all the proof that the election was stolen. tell us about your investigation of this witness's claims. question. i take it from your testimony that you or your team did not interview this man. answer. i did not interview him. question. okay. i can't tell you if someone on the team did not interview him. i think somebody interviewed him. question. you said the story was credible. do you have any knowledge about the source that led you to believe he was credible? answer giuliani. no, i did not have any information that he wasn't. it's not my job in a fast-moving case to go out and investigate every piece of evidence that's given to me, otherwise you're never going to write a story. why the heck would i not believe him? i would've been a terrible lawyer. gee let's go find out if it's untrue. i didn't have the time to do that.
that is the explanation from president trump's lawyer, of where the voting machines stole the election from trump conspiracy came from. which they have been problem gating for months. i assume somebody talk to this guy. no idea if he was credible. it's not like we looked into what he was saying. why would we do that. also i don't know maybe isis something on facebook, but i'm not even sure, that i don't really know one of facebook's. we didn't look into it, we just set it. no we had no idea if it was juggernaut. who cares that's not my job. i think those under oath admissions from the former president's lawyer, should be getting more attention than they are. i'm just gonna go on the record and say that. that's how it goes. we reported on that deposition two days ago. but that lie, which rudy giuliani admits he conjured out of his hair. that lie of course brought us the arizona five month long so-called audit. with an investigated arizona's
presidential results, that turned up fewer votes for donald trump than the official talia turned up. that lie also brought up the ongoing republican investigation and the vote totals in wisconsin, where instead of badgering county clerks for memorandum gmail address, and a made-up letterhead, the republican's handpicked investigator this week, graduated himself to a dot org email address. that he bought somewhere. in a new slightly less fake looking letterhead, for the clerks in wisconsin still have no idea if it's even legal for them to hand over what the republicans are demanding from that states election systems. wisconsin clerks have now contacted the u.s. department of homeland security for advice and want to do, with that burgeoning calamity, and that republican investigation in wisconsin. right, the election lie that the president's lawyer admits was just made up. led to. that it also led to the investigation of election results that republicans are doing a pennsylvania now where they are. subpoenaing personal identifying information on
every voter in this day, including full name, full home address, full date of birth, drivers license numbers, partial security number, for every voter in the state. they want them to have that. think they'll give it to the pipe ranges? that lie also led to the hoops to county recanvas in idaho just this week. which reduced donald trump's margin of victory apparently. it is also led to republican sedentary of state all over the country campaigning for donald trump's endorsement, pledging that they'll run the next election his way, the way he wants. given his made up critique of why it is he lost the last one. and all of that is very in degrees of funny, sad, expensive, ridiculous, and dangerous. but of course that lie also led to the attack of january six on the u.s. capital. and today the oversight crew citizens for responsibility and attics in washington, they released new never before heard police radio recordings from the u.s. park police. these are recordings that among
other things,showthat as the national park police, that police force, was overwhelmed. they at one point had a number of their officers backed up inside the washington monument for their own protection. and that sort of extreme pressure on those police officers happened as early as 9:30 in the morning. on the day of the capitol attack. now as far as i know we have not previously understood that the trump crowd on the lawn, on the capital, ground as early as the 9 am hour, was already fighting with police to the point of overwhelming them. >> units are backed into the monument, everyone's breaking through, there's a large crowd that following us we're going back into the monument with the individual that's under arrest. they're breaking through the bike fence. we're inside, a, there is a part of the gate. >> the prisoners inside the base of the monument with multiple park police officers. they are completely surrounded with protesters and they're
trying to figure out a plan, how to get the arrests down to the wagon. >> i have both of the squads of horses it appeared on the south side. if they can exit the building and come out to us we should be able to escort them all the way down. >> how many guys with you in? there >> i got, about, close to. 20 >> all right that's good. enough if you can form a little bubble around the ten 95, will have a gate open. for you >> what's your? eta we got people starting to congregate around the. horses >> this is before 9:30 in the morning on the day of the u.s. capitol attack on january six. again this is u.s. park police. we have not previously had access to park police radio. and at 9:30 in the morning they are already overwhelmed that it's taking them, what do they say, about 20 guys, 20 officers, and two squads of horses to get one rusty through the trump mod, down to a police car. because the trump mod is so
aggressive against the police already, that by that time of day, if they backed these teams of police officers up to and inside the washington monument where the officers had gone inside the opera-less, once inside the actual monument, to barricade themselves inside. that police abe video newly released by the oversight recruit, we've never before had this inside from the park police side. we didn't know that things work that out of control, that police were under that much of a threat. for five hours before the capital itself was breached? yes, that whole attack was in the name of a ridiculous, and we now know, totally made up, invented lie about the election. which is ridiculous. but it's also about a serious as it gets, right? because the more we are really ally zing, the more we find our documents and tech testimonies and recordings that we get above that they, the worse that
it gets. which is important. >> joining us now is jamie raskin, which has in the past two weeks subpoenaed and testified documents for the role in and knowledge of the events that day. congressman it's a pleasure to see you, thank you for making time to join us. tonight >> it's great to seerachel. >> i have to ask if the park police audio that we just played, and again that is a very small snippet of the hours that have been obtained by crew today. that was new to us. a new to the public. is that new to you and your colleagues? >> i have never heard that tape before, certainly we have spoken to park police before. the park police were valiant, and brave on january six and they were already sent for the struggle. but i have not heard that until earlier in the moment. washington d.c. has organized on a military basis, around the necessary's of circles, that was how they designed the city. they -- and clearly the insurrection
showed up with military plans to attack the police at every point in the district. >> in terms of the evolving understanding of mysteriousness of that day. some of the other take that we heard today involves that park police talked about finding arm people in crowds. arresting people who they found with fire arms. going through bags that people were forced to keep out of the sight on the rally, i which former trump was speaking. and people piled up those bags by the hundreds. and they were going through, those searching for firearms, by the point they were so overwhelmed, they just sent them all out of the area without being able to even search through all of them. there is a lot of new information there, a lot of drama in terms of the park police's own experience. and severity of what was going on and that was not previously known. it may be made me want to ask you today about the prospect of the subpoenas that your committee has sent. i think you have subpoenaed 15
people, including very high-profile people, including steve benson, and lower profile people that are planning those rallies and events. do you actually expect compliance from the people who you have subpoenaed? >> absolutely. somehow during the trump presidency we split into this ridiculous nether land where a subpoena from the u.s. congress could simply be ignored or defied, and we need to get back to basics. here a subpoena from the united states congress is about the most serious thing that canshowup in your mailbox. and that you can be served with. and i wouldn't want to be anyone who decides to defy the authority of the united states congress, the first branch of congress of peoples representatives. and we are on a very serious investigative mission here an inquiry to write a complete and comprehensible report for the american people about the attack on congress, and the county for versus 2020. and we want to get all the
information that we are seeking. and the people that we are subpoenaing should be aware that we have tons of information already, from people who are calling it on the tip line. people who are coming forward. from police officers. and from information that is online, on facebook, on twitter, postings of photographs, and so on. we are just trying to fill in the details now. and we are trying to figure out exactly what the connections are between the trump entourage, and the trump white house, and the oath keepers, the three percenters, the different arms insurrection groups. and who paid for the attack on the u.s. congress. because you don't knock over the capital of the united states of america for free. >> provocative point. and one that we have course will continue to follow with interest, as the committee sticks to its work. congressman because you are, hearing because it's tonight, i have to ask you, because we didn't lose you because you're sitting here talking with me right now, i am assuming that you're not expecting a vote in the next few minutes on the
bipartisan infrastructure package in the house. do you have any updates on us, any idea of how this is going to unfold tonight? >> we have not been noticed yet for notes this evening, the progressive caucus is meeting even as we speak, which as you see how serious i take therachelmaddowshow, and to join you guys. the bottom line is that we have overwhelming immunity with in the democratic caucus, and we need to pass biden's democratic economic package, the whole build back better package, and what has happened over the course of this week is that the public has seized upon what's the real problem is. and unfortunately it is a problem within the senate. and unfortunately it is two senators. and that's why we have so many keepers saying that we have 97, 98% of congress on our side. we want to pass the entire package and stop playing parliamentary games with this pc. we want the entire thing to pass together. because we need daycare for working families, and we need
childcare tax credit, and we need serious climate change progress because we are in a global emergency now. so i think that there is tremendous unity among the democrats and obviously nobody wants to see the legislative process working because there is a lot of push and pull and back and forth and so on. but the bottom line analysis, i believe that the democratic party is going to stand with the vast majority of democrats and americans, as you were pointing out earlier tonight. 70%, 80% of the people in the poll in arizona and all over the country's support what is in the presidents plan. so we will get together and we will pass it. i don't bet against nancy pelosi. she is going to land this place with the help of chuck schumer, and of course because of president biden's leadership. >> congressman jamie raskin, member of the house select committee, on january six, senior member of the house progressive caucus. i will send over a whole pass for you. i'm sorry to get you out of that meeting for you tonight. i know that you are going to be
there late with your colleagues tonight. thank you for making time to be with us. >> i very much appreciated. >> morehead stay with us. morehead stay with us seamlessly intersect. it's understated, yet over-delivers. it is truly the mercedes-benz of sports sedans. lease the 2021 c 300 sedan for just $449 a month at your local mercedes-benz dealer. when i heard about the science behind the new sensodyne repair and protect with deep repair i was super excited about it. it shows that the toothpaste goes deep inside the exposed dentin to help repair sensitive teeth. life is just too short to miss out on simple things like drinking that cold cup of water or having a sip of hot coffee. i have the science to prove it, i can see that it works and i feel confident recommending it to my patients. i'm really excited to recommend new sensodyne repair and protect with deep repair.

wondering what actually goes into your multivitamin? at new chapter, its' innovation, organic ingredients, and fermentation. fermentation? yes. formulated to help you body really truly absorb the natural goodness. before california congresswoman
new chapter. wellness, well done.
barbara we had turned 16 years old, she had never been on an airplane before. this is congresswoman week describing the circumstances in which all that changed for her. >> so i got pregnant, as a teenager. i had just turned 16. and quite frankly, i really did not know what had happened to me. in those days, the word was, take pills, if you think you're pregnant. which i wasn't quite sure. i was thought but i wasn't sure. sit in the top of hot water. our troy co-anchor. all of those. my mother took me to the doctor, and god bless my mother, she
had a friend who is still a good friend, she's in her nineties, whom she knew very well in el paso, one of her best friends in el paso texas. she called her friend. and she told her friend what was going on with me, and her friend said center to me, my first airplane ride from california to el paso texas. my mother's friend said look, i know a very good doctor, but he's in a back alley clinic in mexico. i was terrified. i did not know is taking place. and in fact, you know, i survived. and why it's so important now for me to tell the story is, i don't want any woman, to ever have to go through that. i think it's my duty now, as hard as this is, to talk about it, because i know it's going to happen again, if we don't stop what's taking place. >> barbara least peeking with nbc's aly fatality yesterday. and then today, as a witness in the united states house of representatives, the
congresswoman tell that story again. alongside congresswoman we were to other members of congress who also share their personal stories about choosing to have an abortion. last week, the full house passed a bill called the women's health protection acts. it would codify the protections established in roe v. wade, and guarantee the right for american women to have an abortion. the fate of this bill remains an open question in the senate, as long as the filibuster exist, there's no reason to be optimistic about its chances of reaching president biden's desk. meanwhile texas is abortions ban is in effect. there is one potential source of hope right now, for abortion rights advocates. tomorrow there will be a court hearing in the case of the u.s. justice department is brought against the state of texas, over its new abortion ban. tomorrow the justice department will argue before a federal judge, that that judge should immediately blocked the law from continuing to be enforced. it would essentially put the whole thing on ice, while the texas law gets argued its way through the courts. this ban on basically all legal
abortion in texas, has been in effect for a full month now, but a federal judge could stop it least for the time being. as early as tomorrow. we will have more ahead on that, and be speaking with congress woman barbara lee ahead. stay with us. that's next. e ahead. stay with us that's next. that's next. ing-edge data-security enterprise. yes, with a slide. a perfect location for the world's first one-hour delivery. an inspiration for the next workout cult. and enough space for a pecan-based nutrition bar empire. it could happen. because there's space for any dream on loopnet. the most popular place to find a space. we have to be able to repair the enamel on a daily basis. with pronamel repair toothpaste, we can help actively repair enamel in its weakened state. it's innovative. my go to toothpaste is going to be pronamel repair.

♪ ♪ ♪ common love isn't for us ♪ my go to toothpaste ♪ we created something phenomenal ♪
♪ don't you agree? ♪ ♪ don't you agree? ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ow! ♪ still fresh unstopables in-wash scent booster so many women i knew, downy unstopables
especially black women, who died of back elie abortions. i was one of those but survived, and i think it's my duty now, as hard as this is, to talk about it. because i know it's going to happen again, if we don't stop what's going to take place. >> barbara lee, talking about what it was like for her as a very young woman, as a teenager, to obtain a back alley abortion, in the years before roe v. wade. the hardest thing in the world to talk about right. as you might imagine. she is sharing that story, including testimony in congress today, as we barreled toward a post row world, congresswoman barbara lee of california, thank you for being with us, i know it's been a long and exhausting danya of a long night ahead of you yet. >>racheli'm glad to be with, you i was listening to jamie, and i'm going back to our
progressive cause a meeting in just a minute, but i'm really thankful to be with you this meeting. >> i'm issuing hall pastels wholesale, so i will try to do my best, to excuse you from that meeting as well. thank you. congresswoman, i know that this is, you have said, and i can see, when you talk about, this how difficult it is for you to talk about this. now that you have done so, particularly doing so as a witness today, speaking in congress. i just have to ask how you feel. whether it gets any easier to say, it now that you've said it a couple of times in public, whether you feel, regret whether this is taking anything out of you personally to put so much of yourself out there in such a vulnerable way. >>racheli don't feel any regrets. it's still a little many ways scary for me, i'm a very private person. having an abortion, or having a back alley abortionists
specially, but when i knew then the septic abortions were the largest killer of african african american women. i survived that. talking about is still very hard, i haven't really discussed before talked about it publicly, and not even with my family either. this is a big deal. it's a heart wrenching decision, it's a gut wrenching decision. and the stigma surrounding its, was very dramatic. you knowrachel, i was raised as a catholic. i went to catholic school. i wanted to actually go to the convent. i was the first black cheerleader, i've made very good grades, i was on the honor society, i was an accomplished pianist, when music scholarships and so. this stigma of this, and the fact that i did this, i had to do it, is very hard to talk
about, i'm doing it though because i don't want anybody to have to go through what i went through. i see what's taking place in the country and god knows, i'm worried that if you don't stop these laws, we are going to be back there where we were in the sixties. >> do you have any hope about this federal court hearing tomorrow in the justice department? they are suing texas. and they're going to ask that judge tomorrow, to enjoin essentially the law to stop the enforcement of the. do you have any hope? or do you feel like this is going to be a long hard push ahead for abortion rights advocates? >> i always have to have hope. if it is a long fight, for reproductive rights, freedom, then we will have to continue to mount that fight. i can't imagine the justice system, doing this, and making the decision that would allow women to die, because this is a deadly decision that took place. these are deadly laws, and i
have to be optimistic, because i know what it's like and we can't go back there. we have to just focus very clearly on what we have to do. i'm so pleased we introduced the bill and it passed in the house, the women's health protection act. very important bill. uphill battle in the senate. but people around the country, the polling, the people understands that abortions, should be a personal decision. one of the reasons i never talked about it is because it's nobody else's business. hopefully, we will be able to quantify this into law, roe v. wade, sooner or later. but we can't stop now, we have to keep going until justice is done. >> barbara we exhibiting a powerful form of personal leadership, in the personal cost of it. congresswoman lee, thank you, thank you for being here tonight. >> thank yourachel. >> we'll be right back, stay with us. >> we'll be right back, stay with us. with us. eep on dancing like you ain't got a choice. ♪ ♪ so come one (come on), come on (come on), come on. ♪
no one is just one flavor. ow! ♪ limu emu & doug ♪ got a couple of bogeys on your six, limu.ne flavor. they need customized car insurance from liberty mutual so they only pay for what they need. what do you say we see what this bird can do? woooooooooooooo... we are not getting you a helicopter. looks like we're walking, kid. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪

we have to be able to repair the enamel on a daily basis. with pronamel repair toothpaste, we can help actively repair enamel in its weakened state. it's innovative. my go to toothpaste is going to be pronamel repair. it's moving day. and while her friends are doing the heavy lifting, my go to toothpaste jess is busy moving her xfinity internet and tv services. it only takes about a minute.
wait, a minute? but what have you been doing for the last two hours? ...delegating? oh, good one. move your xfinity services without breaking a sweat. xfinity makes moving easy. go online to transfer your services in about a minute. we are still waiting to see get started today. what is going to happen on capitol hill tonight. nancy pelosi has just sent a dear democratic colleague letter. i won't read the whole thing, but she does say the substance of it is, the work is being done, discussions continue, with the house senate and to read meet a framework and meeting to build back better reconciliation, been many thanks to the participation in patients. the bipartisan infrastructure bill has already had hit roll past. and this debate has concluded all of this momentum