organizer but we continue to do this work. what was extraordinary, he was not limited by political expediency. he just did what was right. >> thank you so much for that. i really appreciate it. that is "all in" on this monday night. the "rachelmaddowshow" starts now. ali velshi is filling in for her.   thank you. you don't think of big things going down in federal court on a saturday. this was really, really big. nothing like it had ever happened before. a whole bunch of top associates of the president of the united states had to march into court that day to plead not guilty to a whole bunch of federal crimes. >> good evening. seven men who once had been the
most powerful in president nixon's reelection campaign were in federal court today. >> the first defendant arriving in the darkness of the underground garage. out front, several hundred persons had gathered. some came to watch and others to demonstrate. campaign lawyer, now defendant, kenneth parkinson arrived. then former attorney general john mitchell. >> put the traitors in jail! >> reporter: there were jeres -- geres for kolson and straun and his lawyer arriving almost unrecognized and one by one, the defendants responded to the
charges, mitchell first, loudly, not guilty to all count the martian, not guilty, kolson, not guilty ehrlichman, not guilty, halderman, not guilty and parkinson and strong, not guilty. they were taunted with cheers of "law and order." >> law and order was one of nixon's slogan and now they were using it to taunt his attorney general as he arrived to face criminal charges. america watching all these top aides, pleading guilty it these serious crimes and giving up their passports. more than four decades later, we have another president of picking up nixon's habit of
talking about law and order and calling people crooks. over the last few years we've had to watch all these close friend and associates of president donald trump walk into court one at a time. each of them often facing charges in a completely separate criminal enterprise, each of them unique. like snowflakes. we watched trump as personal lawyer arrive in court to face charges of making hush money payments to trump's alleged mistresses. we watched his national security adviser head into court to face charges of lying to the fbi. when trump's campaign chairman was indicted on a raft of felonies, including tax and bank fraud, he did the walk very fast like maybe he could outrun the press. trump's long-time political adviser, roger stone, did the walk flamboyantly, dressed like a cartoon villain and attended by a giant entourage to face his
sentences for lying to congress and witness tampering. and when steve bannon was charged with defrauding donors who thought they were donating to a fund to build trump's wall but were donating to steve bannon's pockets, he's quite jovial and jolly and looking quite tanned and rehacksed because he had just been arrested that morning on a chinese billionaire's yacht. still wearing two shirt, though. always with the tw shirts. and now tom barrack arriving in federal court to plead not guilty to charges of acting as a agent of a foreign government of the united arab emirates and lying to federal authorities about it. barrack is out on $250 million bond. as far as we can tell the highest bond set in this history. he had to give up his passports and will be monitored by an
ankle bracelet. he said "i am innocent and we will prove that why court." and he will prove it in court. for tom barrack, it is too late for a trump presidential pardon. even having lived through nixon and watergate, we're not accustomed to watching our courtrooms pay host to presidential officials and friends and donors all from a single one-term presidency. it's not just high-profile figures. the upper echelon folks from donald trump's inner circle, our nation's courts from coast to coast are packed with people, hundreds of them, who are charged with committing crimes in the former president's name. many of the americans who attacked the capitol on january 6th are explicitly arguing in court that president donald trump told them to do it. he told them the election was being stolen. he told them it had to be stopped. he told them to go to the
capitol. donald trump's whole second impeachment was based on the allegation that his actions and rhetoric in the weeks leading up to january 6th up to and including his incendiary speech on that day led directly and predictably to the capitol insurrection. so here is where else we are in unprecedented territory as americans right now. not only are we still grappling with the aftermath and the repercussions of january 6th, not only are its hundreds of alleged perpetrators still making their way through the legal system as we speak, but the dynamic that led to the insurrection, donald trump and his allies riling up his supporters with the big lie, with accusations of a stolen election and demands that something be done about it, that is ongoing. there's no real analogy for the
situation. imagine if nixon resigned under threat of people but then nixon went on a water dwat speaking tour. he held rallies to tell crowds he'd be backing off as long as his great patriot uk supporters did everything they could to keep obstructing that deep state fake watergate investigation. well, this weekend donald trump was in phoenix, arizona, appearing in front of a giant back drop that said "president donald j. trump" like he's still the president. he was there to heap praise. at his rally he said the arizona audit and all the audits that republicans are trying to start in other states will reveal that the election was stolen, and then he implied that he will be reinstated as president. trump's buddy, the pillow salesman, has put a date on it now, trump will be reinstalled
in the oval office on august 13th. mark your calendar, friends, friday the 13th. as with all things trump, it's funny and ridiculous and dangerous. there's a fear that some of trump's supporters might actually be marking their cap -- calendars. here is the chief of cnn speaking this weekend. >> does it concern you we might see a repeat of january 6th? >> i'd be a fool to not be concerned about that. >> there has been chatter looking to august, some of these extremists thinking that that's the month that the former president is going to be reinstated. have you seen any intelligence in the run up to august or what is possibly planned during august that concerns you? >> certainly. we are absolutely laser focused on information like that. we're paying attention to that. we are -- we're not going toshowall of our card and say these are all the things that we know but i can tell you this,
we're going to plan for everything we know. >> that's the new capitol police chief who's got a lot on his plate, even as his force has to face more possible violence seming from election conspiracy theories. many of the officers on capitol hill are still suffering. some 100 were injured. one died that day of a stroke, two others died by suicide. many officers are still coming to grips with the full extent of their injuries both physical and emotional. quote, they have emerged from january 6 from a complex jumble of physical and emotional trauma that has made diagnoses and treatment challenging, made more difficult to downplay the riot. even as the former president is out on the road pushing the big lie, raising the specter of more violence, still his allies in
congress are rewriting the history of the insurrection, describing it as a normal tourist visit, describing the insurrectionists as normal patriot and taking up their cause. tomorrow some of the trumpiest, including matt gates, are holding a press conference outside the justice department to demand answers on the treatment of january 6th prisoners. and republican leaders in congress have done everything they can to block serious investigation of what happened on january 6th, first blocking the creation of a bipartisan commission, then trying to stack the new house select committee with members of congress who have actively pushed election conspiracies and downplayed the violence of january 6th, then boycotting the committee altogether. speaker pelosi appointed to republican governors anyway, adding adam kinzinger and liz cheney. at a white house ceremony today
to mark the great triumph of the americans with disabilities act, kevin mccarthy took time-out with the press corps to attack nancy pelosi and his two remember colleagues who joined the select committee calling them -- i hope you're sitting down for this one -- pelosi republicans. with or without the cooperation of mccarthy, that house select committee to investigate the january 6th attack will begin its work tomorrow and its very first hearing will feature testimony from police officers, four police officers who were at the capitol that day, two from the u.s. capitol police, two from the d.c. metropolitan police. tomorrow we all will get to hear their stories and it will include new video from the attack not seen publicly before. what should we expect tomorrow
and from the investigation it moves forward? joining me congressman jamie raskin and he served as the lead impeachment manager in the second impeachment of donald trump. he's also a member. judiciary committee, a former constitution an law professor as well. congressman, thank you for joining us tonight. it's good to see you again. >> it's great to see you, ali. >> let's talk about what happened here. just this evening in the house of representatives, the republican house leader tried to get his nominees no this committee seated. he still thinks there's some play to be had there. but you are moving ahead. it is bipartisan, whether it needs to be or not, it is bipartisan and it moving ahead tomorrow. what does success look like for you? >> success looks like an investigation that gets at the truth. you know, we're not going to be distracted by any of kevin mccarthy's circus antics or side shows here.
we're starting off with the law enforcement officers because they were on the front lines defending congress, defending democracy against this waves of medieval style violence. they'll describe getting beaten up with baseball bats and confederate battle flags and trump flags and really gruesome, awful things that went on for four or five hours. this was a premeditated, coordinated, violent assault on the congress. united states. and of course it's pathetic that you've got members of congress and people like kevin mccarthy doing everything that they can to sabotage a real investigation. but i think speaker pelosi has outmaneuvered them, despite the fact that rejected the very independent commission they have demanded, five republicans and five democrats with equal subpoena power. we did that and the republicans still killed it because they
don't want a real investigation. america is starring to ask the question what is it they're hiding? it's not all about donald trump. you don't attack the congress of the united states with one guy. we're looking at what were the networks of political influence and domestic violence extremism that got together to attack the capitol on january 6th, how did they try to thwart the democratic process and stop the peaceful transfer of power for the first time in our history? >> you're going to hear from a flew police officers. we're heal from harry dunn, officer ganal and metropolitan police officer daniel hodges. they will present evidence very much like you did at the impeachment trial, evidence that matches up with images that many of us have seen and are familiar with that you describe this medieval attack on the capitol but the other issue, the network
of influencers, the extremists who were in there. how do we get to the bottom of that? who do you call and how do you get them in front of the committee to explain who inside congress empowered these insurrectionists? >> well, that's going to be the next wave of our investigative process. and we've got some top flight investigators and lawyers and staffers here on capitol hill who have come together as part of the select committee to try to unearth what were all of the networks of influence that got together to mobilize this attack on congress and of course we have subpoena power, we got investigative power and we're going to let the chips fall where they may and follow every possible lead in order to determine what happened, how it happened, why it happened, who paid for it and are they still out there? what do we need to do to prevent the next attack because, you
know, the political scientist will tell you the surest sign of a successful coup is a recently failed coup where the perpetrators were able to study the weaknesses. this is deadly serious business and i'm glad we've got a very cohesive bipartisan committee working to get to all the answers. >> after january 6th, you really describe the effect that it had on you. your daughter had seen it and been there. how is it that one's party can affect their need to get to the bottom of an attack at their workplace that targeted all of you, your staff, your police, your security, in your case your family. how does that fall along partisan lines? i'm sure you've asked this question of your colleagues. >> well, i've got to say that overstates it because it's
really not along partisan lines. lynn cheney and kinzinger are proving there are republicans out there who are not afraid to examine these events. it's one guy and 80 or 90% of the republican party that have come under the psychological spell of donald trump. so we were living through the remarkable moment when a modern political party is behaving much more like an authoritarian religious cultive personality where one person dictates what everybody says and what everybody does so when kevin mccarthy comes out today and he calls my colleagues pelosi republicans, it clear he sees a republican. that's all the i way that the trump robots see it. it really scary. but you're going to see in this select committee real bipartisanship at work. every member of the committee is
contributing a lot to look at what happened and make sure it ever happens again. >> we appreciate your time tonight. got a lot of news to get to tonight, including what looks like it could be a big step in the fight against covid and against people who refuse to get vaccinated. that's next. stay with us. vaccinated that's next. stay with us and ask your doctor about biktarvy. biktarvy is a complete, one-pill, once-a-day treatment used for h-i-v in certain adults. it's not a cure, but with one small pill, biktarvy fights h-i-v to help you get to and stay undetectable. that's when the amount of virus is so low it cannot be measured by a lab test. research shows people who take h-i-v treatment every day and get to and stay undetectable can no longer transmit h-i-v through sex. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects include a buildup of lactic acid and liver problems.
do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your doctor about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b, do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your doctor. common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache. if you're living with hiv, keep loving who you are. and ask your doctor if biktarvy is right for you. (piano playing) here we go. ♪♪ [john legend's i can see clearly now] ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪
make your reunion happen with vrbo. your together awaits. vrbo (can crack) ♪ nothing on this planet compares to it ♪ ♪ don't you agree? ♪ (dog barking) ♪ don't you agree? ♪ ♪ lights out, follow the noise ♪ ♪ baby, keep on dancing like you ain't got a choice ♪ ♪ so come on, come on, come on ♪ ♪ let's get physical ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ let's get physical ♪ no one is just one flavor ♪ ow! ♪ team usa is ready for the olympic games... ...and so is sharon! she got xfinity internet and mobile together...
so she has fast and reliable wifi at home... wow! ...and nationwide 5g on the most reliable wireless network... oh my gosh! ...plus up to 400 dollars off her wireless bill! wow! cheer on team usa with xfinity internet. and ask how to save up to $400 a year on your wireless bill when you add xfinity mobile. get started today.
qanonis come -- is on a ballot near year. it is time for the republican party to expunge these conspiracy theorists from their ranks.   in st. louis, missouri, they're back to indoor mask mandates today. in louisiana, one of the largest hospitals is stopping nonemergency surgeries. a single county in central florida is seeing a thousand new covid-19 cases a day now. hospitals there are near capacity. the mayor saying they are in crisis mode. it's easy to remember the time when these kind of headlines were routine but it's unfathomable that we're back here again. with the highly contagious delta
variant on the rise, all 50 states in the country are experiencing a significant growth in covid case. the rate of new cases per day in the last month has quadrupled nationwide. that trajectory is fueled by the millions of americans who remain unvaccinated. they have tried giving people free beer and food, cold, hard cash as incentiving to get the shots. only 49% of the country is fully vaccinated against covid, well below the threshold needed to achieve herd immunity. now some states are pulling out the last tool in their arsenal to try to curb the spread of covid. we saw it last month with a hospital system in houston, texas, required all of its health care workers to get vaccinated if they wanted to keep their jobs. it was a little bumpy at first. more than 150 workers either quit or were fired for not complying. a group filed a lawsuit against the hospital. since that 98% of the employees
at the hospital system have been fully vaccinated. 2% received exception or deferrals and the judge in the lawsuit tossed out the case, said the hospital was just, quote, trying to do their business of saving lives without giving patients the covid-19 virus. if you measure success here by how many people got vaccinated in the ecosystem of people working at this one hospital system, this worked. a 97% vaccination rate among a single group of people is probably higher than anyone else in the world right now. so now other people are running houston's play book. today both the city of new york and the entire state of california now said they would require all their employees to either get the covid vaccine or subject themselves to weekly testing. this new rule will apply to around 340,000 municipal workers in new york city from teachers to police officers to government officials. in california it applies to
every state employees, roughly a quarter of a million people, plus 2 million on site public and private health care workers. the department of federal veteran affairs imposed the first vaccine mandate at the federal level in america. the justice department issued an opinion saying federal law does not prohibit businesses or agencies from imposing covid-19 mandates. this may encourage more businesses across the country to issue these requirements. get the shot or don't come to work. there's been a real flurry of action around mandating the covid vaccine for certain slices of the population. today nearly 60 different medical groups issued a joint statement calling for mandatory
vaccine requirements for all health care workers in the united states. for many groups on the list, it was the first time they made such a public endorsement of mandating vaccines but their reason was clear -- "as the health care community leads the way in requiring vaccines for our employees, we hope all other employers across the country will follow our lead and implement effective policies to encourage vaccination. the health and safety of u.s. workers, families, communities and the nation depends on it." joining us now is dr.rachelvillenueva, one of those who signed on to the vaccine mandate letter. and she's a member of the medical advisory group of the black health trust. doctor, thank you for joining us this evening. your response, first of all, to
this new news of the department of justice issuing an opinion to say it would not be illegal in their opinion for businesses and organizations and employers to issue mandate. >> thank you for having me. i think it's such a great piece of information in our arsenal against the covid-19 vaccine virus to have this information. it is critically important that we encourage all members of society that are able to get the vaccine to get vaccinated. it's really the only way we're going to surmount the pandemic. >> percentage of the total population vaccinated just under 50% right now. doctor, are you surprised that we're surprised that we're bumping up against this level of
resistance? is this what you would have expected? >> i'm not surprised. i'm dus pointed but i'm not surprised. i think we have had a lot of -- it's been politicized. >> thank you. i have trouble with that one, too. >> there has been so much misinformation around the vaccine and i think confidence in the vaccine is not very high. and so i'm not surprised. i think it's not unusual for any individual to have concerns about taking a new medication or a new vaccine. but it is critical that we encourage all members across america who are able to get the vaccine to get the vaccine. >> you are an obstetrician and a gynecologist. you are in the business of dealing with people's fears about medicine, you know, what they don't know about medicine and doctors in theory should have a great deal of empathy for
people. how do you blend the empathy that you got for people who are fearful, maybe subject to this misinformation about the vaccine with the fact that it is affecting the rest of us? we are actually seeing another wave of covid coming back and affecting those of us who are vaccinated. >> i think it's very simple. i think it's being a doctor 101 or being a health care provider 101. you really have to listen to your patients. it's not -- you can't really beat them over the head with the information. i think you have to meet them where they are. you have to help educate them, you have to validate their concerns and walk them through why it's so important. and at the national medical association, our patients are primarily the underserved, marginalized and under resourced populations whose vaccine rates
are significantly lower than the general population. so for our organization it was so important for us to sign on to this statement so that we could encourage our own patients to take the vaccine. >> i've written down the word so i say it right. the politicization you were talking about. mask were politicized before the vaccine. now dr. fauci is saying revised mask guidance is under consideration. he said revising mask guidance is under discussion. the taking off of the mask where people are vaccinated felt like a return of normalcy. do you think we might have to go back to everybody being masked? >> i would definitely leave that up to the experts. what i will say is that we see a return to normalcy but now we're seeing a surge and a return to what we saw last year. and increased rates, cases of
covid-19, hospitalizations and deaths. over 90% are in people who are not vaccinated. so as far as the vaccination, we encourage all that are able to get vaccinated to get vaccinated and whatever mitigation strategies we need to do to surmount the pandemic and the covid-19 virus we will do. if that means that the experts decide that we need to continue to wear masks or vaccinated people need to start wearing masks again, then i think that's what we need to do. i think nobody wants to live through the trauma that we've lived through last year and the number of deaths we lived through. so whatever we need to do, we'll do. >> i think that's the right attitude. president of the national medical association and clinical assistant professor of obstetric and gynecology at the ny school of medicine and i managed to say
that properly the second time. on thursday,racheltold you representative johnson there in the suit and a group of men were arrested. today dozens were arrested in arizona for doing the same thing. i'll give you a few guesses as to whose office that took placeout side of. the answer when we come back. acf the answer when we come back . we recognize that energy demand is growing, and the world needs lower carbon solutions to keep up. at chevron, we're working to find new ways forward, like through our venture capital group. backing technologies like electric vehicle charging, carbon capture and even nuclear fusion. we may not know just what lies ahead, but it's only human... to search for it. this is the greatest idea you'll ever hear. okay, it's an app that compares hundreds of travel sites for hotels and cars
and vacation rentals like kayak does for flights. so it's kayak. yeah, like kayak. why don't you just call it kayak. i'm calling it... canoe. compare hundreds of travel sites for thousands of trips. kayak. search one and done. i've never slept like this before. we gave new zzzquil pure zzzs restorative herbal sleep compare hundreds of travel sites for thousands of trips. to people who were tired of being tired. what is even in this? clinically-studied plant based ingredients passion flower, valerian root, and hops. new zzzquil pure zzzs restorative herbal sleep. darrell's family uses gain flings now so their laundry smells more amazing than ever. isn't that the dog's towel? hey, me towel su towel. more gain scent plus oxi boost and febreze in every gain fling.
do you struggle with occasional nerve aches in your hands or feet? try nervivenerve relief from the world's #1 selling nerve care company. nervive contains alpha lipoic acid to relieve occasional nerve aches, weakness and discomfort. try nervivenerve relief. (vo) when you are shopping for a new vehicle, how do you know which brand you can trust? with subaru, you get kelley blue book's most trusted brand
winner, seven years in a row. in fact, subaru has won most trusted brand for more consecutive years than any other brand. no wonder kelley blue book also picked subaru as their best overall brand. once again. it's easy to love a brand you can trust. it's easy to love a subaru. is your family ready for an emergency? you can prepare by mapping out two ways to escape your home, creating a supply kit, and including your whole family in practice drills. for help creating an emergency plan, visit safetyactioncenter.pge.com
a little preparation will make you and your family safer in an emergency. a week's worth of food and water, radio, flashlight, batteries and first aid kit are a good start to learn more, visit safetyactioncenter.pge.com   the for the people campaign is ramping up. it held 27 rallies in cities across the country. if phoenix, william barber and jesse jackson held a rally at the sinema's office. they held a march where they held a sit-in, blocking the entrance as they sang "this
little light of mine." both civil rights leaders were arrested at the sit-in. barber posted this photo of him in zip ties with the caption "we've got to get these shackles off our democracy." and senator sinema's spokesman said there could be stricter voting laws down the line. reverend barber will be in texas tomorrow to launch a four-day selma-to-montgomery march. today state representatives left texas to go to d.c. to restrict voting access in that state.
that group of texas democrats have met with the vice president, kamala harris, house majority whip james clyburn but they have not been able to get a meeting with the president himself and their frustration is starting to bubble over. during a remote office call with a member of congress, texas state representative richard raymond said he won't meet with us on zoom like this. i'm trying to be tactful but i don't know how else to say it, man, i'm just pissed off at this point. here's what brown told politico "hope is constantly turning to frustration. when in the hell are those who claim they are committed to democracy going toshowup to protect those that protect democracy? joining me, latasha brown, co-founder of black voters matter. you have spoken patiently with us for a very long time. you, too, are running out of
patience but you are being joined by this direct action. we are seeing arrests on acts of civil disobedience in a manner we have not seen largely since the civil rights movement. >> absolutely. we've not seen the kind of affront, attack on voting rights that we are seeing right now is similar to what we saw in the 60s. this isn't just about voter i.d. this is about states and the gop putting themselves in a position where they're weaponizing the voting process. we're seeing that in georgia and all across in nation. to the extent the texas democrats had to flee from their homes to go to d.c. to stop this voter suppression, that's a demonstration of how intense the fight is we're in right now. while we seeing this directs action is not going to stop, this is not something that's not going to go away, that we can outorganize, outlitigate, we're going to have to have federal
legislation to make sure we have protect voting rights and really unravel a lot of the damage that republicans are doing right now. >> let's look at the states enacting restrictive laws right now. these are states voting, enacting voting rights laws. you've got a second map here, states that are actually efforting these audits like pennsylvania and michigan where they may not get much traction but they are trying. latasha, until people not directly affected by this as you in georgia were or people in texas were, until everybody understands this is an affront on all voting rights, we're not activating the rest of the population. how do we get people to understand this is their problem, this is not a black urban problem, this is not a black voters in the south problem, this is a democracy problem. >> i think there's a number of things that we have to do. one, we have to be honest and look what the is happening right now, that this isn't just what happened in georgia.
we're seeing this widespread all across the nation. while black and brown voters have been targeted and in many of those states you've seen the most egregious laws come up, the truth of the a matter is it is going to impact all voters and that's every single one of us. one of the pieces we have to also help people understand is that any time a political party, be it the libertarian, the green, the democratic, the republican, doesn't matter, any time a political party abuses their power to really be able -- and their authority to put laws in place so that whoever does not vote for them they can punish or they can prevent them from voting or make it more difficult that, that in itself is political corruption. that is literally the unraveling. that is how democracy dies. when you're starting to see the effects of democracy and how democracy was taken down, we're seeing those -- we're seeing those effects right now. we're seeing those steps. so we've got to really recognize
there's a larger issue that's really even beyond just the right to vote, that any time a party is abusing the administrative process to literally be able to navigate and create the results that they want, which is precisely what trump was asking them to do in the last election. >> thank you again for your time tonight. thanks for your continued efforts to preserve everybody's right to vote. latasha brown is the co-founder of black voters matter. in just a minute we'll be joined live by richard engel. he has a lot to say about his time in afghanistan last week. o time in afghanistan last week. pe that takes you further. at the lexus golden opportunity sales event. get 0.9% apr financing on the all 2021 lexus hybrid models. experience amazing. ♪ when i was young ♪ no-no-no-no-no please please no. ♪ i never needed anyone. ♪ front desk.
yes, hello... i'm so... please hold. ♪ those days are done. ♪ i got you. ♪ all by yourself. ♪ go with us and find millions of flexible options. all in our app. expedia. it matters who you travel with. did you know prilosec otc can stop frequent heartburn before it begins? heartburn happens when stomach acid refluxes into the esophagus. prilosec otc uses a unique delayed-release formula that helps it pass through the tough stomach acid. it then works to turn down acid production, blocking heartburn at the source. with just one pill a day, you get 24-hour heartburn protection. prilosec otc. one pill a day, 24 hours, zero heartburn. he looked after his community. she built an empire. fought for his people. protected this nation. they are the heroes in my family.
who are the heroes in yours? ♪ ♪ know this about the jungle, everything that you see wants to kill you and can. ♪ ♪ ♪ born to be wild ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ born to be wild ♪ ♪ ♪ see disney's jungle cruise. applebee's and a movie, now that's eatin' good in the neighborhood. to be a thriver with metastatic breast cancer means... grabbing a hold of what matters. asking for what we want. and need. and we need more time. so, we want kisqali. living longer is possible and proven with kisqali when taken with fulvestrant or a nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitor in hr+, her2- metastatic breast cancer. kisqali is approved for both pre- and postmenopausal women, and has extended lives in multiple clinical trials.
kisqali is a pill that's significantly more effective at delaying disease progression versus a nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitor or fulvestrant alone. kisqali can cause lung problems, or an abnormal heartbeat, which can lead to death. it can cause serious skin reactions, liver problems, and low white blood cell counts that may result in severe infections. tell your doctor right away if you have new or worsening symptoms, including breathing problems, cough, chest pain, a change in your heartbeat, dizziness, yellowing of the skin or eyes, dark urine, tiredness, loss of appetite, abdomen pain, bleeding, bruising, fever, chills, or other symptoms of an infection, a severe or worsening rash, are or plan to become pregnant, or breastfeeding. avoid grapefruit during treatment. kisqali is not approved for use with tamoxifen. it's our time. for more time. we asked for kisqali. ask your doctor about living longer with kisqali.
feel the cool rush of claritin cool mint chewables. powerful 24-hour, non-drowsy, allergy relief we asked for kisqali. plus an immediate cooling sensation for your throat. feel the clarity, and live claritin clear.   this is the headline from the "arizona republic" today. andy bigs and paul gosar vote to abandon the afghan allies. they're part of a small group of 16 republicans who voted against
an overwhelmingly bipartisan bill to expedite the process to get afghan translators who helped u.s. forces to safety as america ends its longest war. quote, when the u.s. pulled out of vietnam, there were unfortunate, sometimes tragic repercussions for some of the vietnamese who assisted our troops. the idea of the house bill was to not let that happen agains are -- again are to appreciate loyalty, and understand humanity. in voting no, the congressmen proved themselves to be unmistakableably the opposite. they are not the only facing backlash for voting against helping afghan translators. >> when nearly every republican and democrat in congress comes together to make sure local interpreters who served us
faithfully and kept you are troops safe are offered a way out if they want it, guess who teamed up and voted to abandon them to the taliban? bovert and greene. they wouldn't know a patriot if one stepped up and shook their hands. they don't respect service and sacrifice. they ridicule those who serve and praise traitors and insurrectionists. let's make it our message to replace them. >> there are 46 days left until we reach the biden administration's end of august deadline for withdrawing all remaining u.s. forces from afghanistan, 46 days. other members of congress and veterans groups across the country are doing everything they can to try and save those afghan translators and their families before it's too late. with each passing day, the challenge faced by those translators becomes more dire.
thousands of afghans eligible for a u.s. visa face a perilous journey through taliban territory just to reach the capital, kabul. they said, "our city is surrounded," can fall at any time. meanwhile on the battlefield, the taliban's grip on the country continues to grow. they control about half of afghanistan's district centers. the bright red areas on these mapsshowjust how much territory the taliban has taken. that's just three months. over the past week the u.s. has supported the afghan army with air strikes but it remains unclear how much longer that support will last. so as the situation on the ground in afghanistan continues to get worse and with the u.s. and nato withdrawal now more
than 95% complete, what will happen to the thousands of u.s. allies in a country that is desperately looking for a way out? joining us now, richard engel, nbc chief foreign correspondent who is with me in person. you're the first correspondent i've been in person with for the last correspondent i have been in contact with in a year and a half. >> it is a great surprise. i did not know. >> you didn't know. >> i came in from afghanistan. i am looking around. there is nobody home. >> well, we are getting back to normal, we hope. afghanistan is not. your reporting on afghanistan is very different from what the bide administration is saying is going on. a very well trained, strong military. we will back them up but they can handle the taliban. everybody on the ground says that does not look like it will go. >> look at the map you showed and the quotes you put on the screen. many cities are surrounded.
the taliban could probably take most of afghanistan if it wanted to. if the u.s. pulled back to stop the last air strikes that they are carrying out to keep the door open while the last bit of the exit happens, the taliban could probably take a lot of cities. seems like they have been holding off. they surrounded a lot of the major urban centers and they set themselves up in a position to take over militarily. there is a negotiated process going on in qatar. negotiation, taliban representatives, don't put a lot of faith in that. qatar officials are thinking that. they are just wasting time. negotiating about a future power sharing agreement in which the afghan government negotiates with the taliban says we will give you half the government. 40%.
60%. the taliban is saying okay, let's just keep talking. they set up their troops in a position around the cities and around so they can take the cities and the process would be meaningless. why would they give away anything in negotiations? >> those type of power sharing agreements have not worked well in the middle east. we saw one of them fail in tunisia today. >> what is happening with the translators is tragic and avoidable. america's longest war, 20 years. you would think you would have time to plan for an exit like this. and this deal to pull out was signed by president trump. so it has been a long time they had to plan for this day. the u.s. military does plan very well. they were able to get out their troops safely so far. they have gotten out a lot of equipment and weapons. i don't know why they didn't put any thought in to this and there
are thousands and thousands of people there that can't come in to kabal and send in their forms and get prosprocessed and they going to die. >> we fully understand the argument about getting out of afghanistan. hoping it will be an outcome. sending another generation of soldiers in there. but on the other side, what is the danger of afghanistan falling? >> well, many. aside from the horrible outcome for the translators and all of the people that work for us, which is a moral failing. it sends a message to the rest of the world. who will work with us again if this is what you do with the people that signed contracts, risked their lives, went on missions and you leave them to die. afghanistan itself, the taliban are using this as an enormous rallying cry. already they are about 22 different extremist groups that operate in the region and they
are coming to join the party. they want to see the taliban victory. the taliban is going to be able to say for generations to come it pushed out the united states. it did what isis and al qaeda could not do. it will be the champion of extremist groups. that does a lot of damage. encourages extremists and could destabilize pakistan. pakistan played a big role in supporting the taliban. now taliban is worried about spill over and that it encouraged the fire and now the fire could jump over the border and engulf pakistan as well. 200 million people. destabilizing pakistan. allowing afghanistan to become this symbol of extremist defiance and victory.
there is still a little time but the window is closing for them. >> thank you for your great reporting on this. >> it is good to be here. let's do it again. >> we absolutely will. richard engel, nbc's chief foreign correspondent. stay with us, we will be right back after the break. t. stay with us, we will be right back after the break rful clarit. claritin-d improves nasal airflow two times more than the leading allergy spray at hour one. [ deep inhale ] claritin-d. get more airflow. (piano playing) here we go. ♪♪ [john legend's i can see clearly now] ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ make your reunion happen with vrbo. your together awaits.
vrbo hey lily, i need a new wireless plan for my business, but all my employees need something different. oh, we can help with that. okay, imagine this... your mover, rob, he's on the scene and needs a plan with a mobile hotspot. we cut to downtown, your sales rep lisa has to send some files, asap! so basically i can pick the right plan for each employee... yeah i should've just led with that... with at&t business... you can pick the best plan for each employee and only pay for the features they need. for people living with h-i-v, keep being you. and ask your doctor about biktarvy. biktarvy is a complete, one-pill, once-a-day treatment used for h-i-v in certain adults. it's not a cure, but with one small pill, biktarvy fights h-i-v to help you get to and stay undetectable. that's when the amount of virus is so low it cannot be measured by a lab test. research shows people who take h-i-v treatment every day and get to and stay undetectable
can no longer transmit h-i-v through sex. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects include a buildup of lactic acid and liver problems. do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your doctor about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b, do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your doctor. common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache. if you're living with hiv, keep loving who you are. and ask your doctor if biktarvy is right for you.
like you, my hands are everything to me. but i was diagnosed with dupuytren's contracture. and it got to the point where things i took for granted got tougher to do. thought surgery was my only option. turns out i was wrong. so when a hand specialist told me about nonsurgical treatments, it was a total game changer. like you, my hands have a lot more to do. learn more at factsonhand.com today.   it is rare when you can get a lobbyist to speak candidly about how their profession
works. posing as recruiters, greenpeaceuk and channel 4 news tricked one of exxon's senior lobbyists. >> did we aggressively fight against some of the science? yes. did we join some of these shadow groups to work against some of the early efforts, yes, that's true. they insist it was a sting by greenpeace to smear them. we do not know that. but the house oversight committee sent a request for an
interview. the committee wants an answer by friday. if the lobbyist denies the request a subpoena could be around this corner. asrachelwould say, watch this space. now time for the last word with lawrence o'donnell. >> this is the closest that we have been all year. this is my first time in the new york studio this year. >> i think it might be the first time ever in the same building. >> this week is infrastructure week in washington. in the biden presidency infrastructure week actually means working on infrastructure legislation.
in the