but i think having translated it this way it does have quite a few benefits and one is it is much more progressive. >> i love going through senate, senate legislation like you would go through the ruins of an old civilization to find out who their gods were and our god is the filibuster in reconciliations. it's like, all right, that's the reason. >> any normal person. >> david roberts, thank you very much. s that great. that is "all in" for this evening. therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. >> good evening, chris. i will not try to figure out all the ways to rework religion-based words to make them filibusterism, but that idea is going to stick with me. >> it is amazing how central it is when you see something pop up and you're like, oh, right, because of that. it is this thing that everyone orbits around, the super majority defactor requirement we have in our politics. >> right. oh, this is the vortex. this is the center around which
everything swirls and which never can be spoken of. yes, exactly. >> well done, my friend and well put. thank you very much. >> thanks to you at home for joining us. thanks for being here. the washington field office of the fbi today released new footage. this new footage showing the person who they believe placed pipe bombs, real bombs, operational explosive devices at the headquarters of the democratic party and the headquarters of the republican party in washington, d.c. the night before the january 6th attack on the u.s. capital. again, this is new footage. the fbi says this was shot quite near the dnc headquarters where the first bomb is placed. not much happens in the footage, except you get a long look of the person in question. they wander in, sits down on that bench, appears to look at their phone for a while maybe and eventually they move on again. this new footage released by the fbi today is of course in addition to the other footage of
the same suspected bomber that has previously been released by the fbi. it has been eight months since these bombs were placed. there has still been no arrests in this case. the fbi and the atf are offering 100,000 reward for any information leading to the arrest of the suspected bomber. and their statement about the new footage they released today and also a new map they released showing what they think was the walking path of the bomber that night between 7:30 and 8:30 p.m. on january 5th, the fbi is getting newly specific about what they know about the suspected bomber and what they are looking for from the public. this is from the fbi's release today. quote, reviews of the suspect's behavior and video footage and interviews with views of the capitol hill neighborhood head the fbi to believe the suspect is not from the area.
you can see that in a little bit in the roundabout route the suspect seems to take, not knowing where he or she is, apparently. you might surmise that from the route the person took. quote, based on the suspect's route of travel and the manner in which the suspect carries the backpack after placing the pipe bomb at the dnc, the fbi believes the suspect had a location in the vicinity of folger park from which the person was operating. if you know capitol hill at all, it is a pretty little small park in the capitol hill neighborhood in washington, d.c. it's not far from the eastern metro station. the fbi is issuing a national calm for tips from the american people who have been tremendously helpful to date in providing information to further this investigation. the fbi is asking the public to view the virtual map and watch the new video of the suspect and come forward with any
information you recognize about this person's glasses, shoes, backpack or any of the items, mannerisms and characteristics in the photos and videos the fbi has released. anyone who may have seen the suspect or anything unusual at all in folger park in august is asked to call the fbi. the person who placed these bombs wore a face mask, glasses, a gray hooded sweatshirt, gloves and black and light gray nike air max speed turf shoes with a yellow logo. that's a lot of detail about the shoes. more on that in a second. the fbi also says, quote, the suspect used a pack back to transport each of the devices. the head of the washington field office in fact fbi then gives this quote. we know it is hard to report information about a friend or family member, but these pipe bombs were viability devices
that could have detonated causing innocent bystanders to be seriously injured or killed. your tip could be the one that prevents this person from harming others. the fbi field office releasing this new plea to the public, this new video, this animated map shows what they believe to be the walking path of the bomber that night trying to find the bomb maker who laid active pipe bombs at the democratic and republican headquarters the night before the january 6th attack on the capital. i mentioned that was a lot of detail about the shoes that the person was wearing and that they can see in this various surveillance footage they've got. they have also released a number of different closeup detail photos of the type of sneakers the person was wearing. first on the left they are showing the person wearing them. and then on the right showing what they believe are those sneakers in a clearer image with those arrows identifying sort of distinctive marks on those shoes.
i think the idea with all the detail on these sneakers is that they think these are rare enough and distinctive enough that you might remember if you knew someone who had these sneaks, a person who could have been in d.c. that night. that said, at this point in our nation's politics, you do have to be specific. you do have to, as they say, disam big wait when you talk about mad bombers on capitol hill because this suspected bomber from january 6th, for whom there is $100,000 reward, this suspected bomber is not to be confused with the other bomber from three weeks ago, the guy who pulled up on to the sidewalk in front of the library on congress, also on capitol hill, claiming to have a bomb in his black truck, claims that he had packed his truck with enough explosives that we could blow up several square blocks of that
part of washington, d.c. don't be confused. not the same as the august 19th capitol hill would be black truck bomber who said he was demanding to see president biden and he was there to start the uprising so all the democrats would have to resign and go to jail and then president trump would be president then and then trump would pardon him for his bombing and all the pro-trump activists in order to put trump back in office. two different bombers we're talking about there. again, even further is necessary because neither of those two attempted bombers should be confused with this other one. a man named lonnie kaufman. you see him in the black square there circled by the fbi. lonnie kaufman didn't come to washington on january 6th as part of the pro-trump mob that attacked the u.s. capital that day. his red gmc pickup was found
that day parked near the u.s. capital in an area that had been closed off in part because of the pipe bombs found in the local party headquarters in the republican and democratic parties. his pickup was found packed with a loaded rifle, a loaded shotgun, two nine millimeter pistols, also a cross boy, also several machetes, also a stun gun, a bunch of smoke bombs and notably 11 molotov cocktails, fire bombs, all assembled and ready to go stacked in his pickup. kind of makes you pay more attention to the fact that in the photograph they say was him among the trump mob was smoking on january 6th. did you smoke in your truck, too when you drove it up with with the molotov cocktails in it? they were ready to go and filled with what amounts to, basically,
homemade nay palm (. lonnie kaufman was arrested that day, one of the few people from the mob who was actually arrested that day. he was actually the first person indicted for the january 6th attack on the capital. prosecutors today told the judge overseeing mr. kaufman's case that they have reached a plea agreement with him which likely means he's likely to plead guilty to at least some part of the felony indictment he was hit with in january. they put in their notice about their proposed plea deal today. he won't plead guilty until his next scheduled appearance which is at the end of the month. only one will the judge and by extension we the public find out what he's pleading to and under what terms and whether he's cooperating. the judge of course then still has to decide whether to accept any guilty plea from him at this point. so this has a ways to go to spread out. but the first person indicted for the january 6th attack, the guy with 11 molotov cocktails
and all of those guns and weapons stacked in his truck on capitol hill, he has told his lawyers that he will plead. we shall see. still, though, do try to keep your politically motivated would be capitol hill mad bombers straight at this point. there is enough of them around and about that it can be confusing over these last few months since the election. next weekend, not this upcoming weekend, but next saturday, the 18th of september, a former trump campaign official is organizing another trump supporter rally on capitol hill to try to glorify and celebrate and demand the freedom -- demand the freedom of the people who attacked the capital on january 6th. this is a rally specifically to lionize the trump supporters who attacked the capital saying those people have only been arrested because they're being politically persecuted for their beliefs as trump supporters, not
because they actually did anything wrong when they attacked the capital. this is distantly ringing a bell. you might remember this was russian president vladimir putin's take on the january 6th protests as well. he said they were all political prisoners. it is gravely unjust they were all arrested. that's the justice for january 6th rally that will happen in washington next weekend organized by a trump campaign official. today nancy pelosi was asked about preparations for that. she said bluntly, quote, these people are coming back to praise the people who were out to kill members of congress on january 6th. speaker pelosi has also asked the top democrat and top republican in the senate, chuck schumer and mitch mcconnell as well as the top republican in the house, kevin mccarthy, to come to a full leadership security briefing with her on monday about preparations for next weekend's rally and efforts
to protect the capital that day. capital police and d.c. police said they will activist their entire force that day. all officers will have to be on duty to protect the capital that day, protect the capital once again from trump supporters. the associated press was first to report tonight that the protective fencing that went up in the immediate wake of the trump mob on january 6th, that fortress-like fencing that went up in january and stayed until july, that fencing will go back up again next week in anticipation that trump supporters may try yet again to age another physical attack against the u.s. capital that day. meanwhile, tomorrow is going to be a really interesting day for the investigation of what actually happened in their first attack on the u.s. capital. tomorrow is the deadline for 35 different telecom companies and social media companies to respond to the records requests
made to them. a bunch of federal agencies will have to respond by tomorrow, but also three dozen telecom companies and phone companies. the committee told all those companies to retain and produce records, communications records related to specific individuals who may have been involved in the january 6th attack or in the trump ally that led immediately to the attack. the list included republican members of congress who spoke at that january 6th rally or who were otherwise connected to it. a bunch of those republican members of congress have since written threatening letters to all those telecom and cell phone and social media companies warning those companies that they shouldn't comply with that congressional request, which is sort of amazing in its own rights. members of congress telling companies don't comply with requests for information by congress. kevin mccarthy actually threatened all the companies himself, telling the companies
that when republicans were back in control in washington, republicans will not forget what these companies do if they do respond to this request for information and hand over these records. if these companies don't go along with these requests for information, they will just be subpoenaed for information and then they won't have a choice. but these republican members of congress screaming such bloody murder about having their own january 6th communications reviewed, hey, it's pointless except to antagonize the companies and toshowthat republicans are very, very comfortable with threatening private enterprise in order to protect their own personal political interests and to protect themselves from criminal liability. but then screaming such bloody murder about how terrible it would be if their communications records from january 6th were handed over, them screaming such bloody murder about that is making everybody much more interested to know what's in those communications after all. why are you so worried about?
eric swalwell posted a copy of that threatening letter from the republican members of congress threatening about all the terrible things republicans will do to those companies if they comply and hand over those records. he posted their threatening letter on line with this caption, quote, tell me you were involved in the january 6th insurrection without actually telling me you were involved in the january 6th insurrection. again, them screaming such bloody murder about having their records reviewed in conjunction with the january 6th investigation puts the stakes and the spotlight -- raises the stakes and puts the spotlight brighter and hotter in terms of what those records willshow. again, tomorrow is the deadline for that request as well as the requests that were sent to eight different federal agencies including the national archives which maintains the records of the trump white house. so the deadlines for that is
tomorrow. we will see. but this -- this part of our politics isn't in the past. it is not getting any better. it is getting worse. it's getting worse or, i should say, at least it's taking deeper holds on the right. on tuesday, next week, as you know, california voters will decide whether they're going to recall democratic governor gavin newsom. if california voters choose to recall gavin newsom, the leading republican candidate to replace him as governor would be a right wing talkshowhost who has literally like hosted mike lindell, the my pillow guy and entertained all the trump fantasies about how the 2020 election must have been stolen. he, that candidate, and also former president trump in a recent interview on news max and also one of the host on the fox news channel's "fox nation," they have all said in recent days that if governor gavin
newsom wins on tuesday, if he is not recalled by california voters next week, they won't accept that result is real. they're already saying in advance if gavin newsom wins in the recall election, it will definitely be because of some kind of voter fraud. it is not plausible. it is not possible for there to be an election result in which the democrat wins and heads off a recall effort. any such purported election result is by definition fraud and must be rejected. that election isn't until next week. but just like trump spent months leading up to november 2020 saying if he lost he would claim it was fraud, they're already saying that about california. they're already seeding the ground for the california's governor race next week as well. it is everywhere now. it's what republicans are doing everywhere. in nevada, the front runner for
the republican nomination for the u.s. senate seat that's up there next week, he's not actually in a primary for that seat for another nine months. even if he wins the republican primary in nine months, he wouldn't be up for the general election contest for that seat for 14 months. but he already right now is campaigning on how he's going to bring great lawsuits to contest the election results. nine months before the primary he's already saying that the election is definitely going to have voter fraud and he's definitely going to be challenging the results. i don't have to tell you he has former president trump's endorsement for that senator seat in nevada. former president trump send out a fund-raising e-mail that claimed that 15 million ballots were not counted in the presidential race in 2020, which is absolutely insane. but he sent that out as a fundraiser literally two minutes after his pac confirmed he's
doing a rally next month. he's basically telling his reporters he's going to iowa because he's going to run for president again. but as eric blake reports, literally two minutes after that he sent his supporters a demand for money because of 15 million missing ballots from the presidential election which all of course must be avenged. the democrats right now are concerned about, you know, voting rights being rolled back and the strength of the economic recovery given the ongoing problems with covid. they're also concerned about the ongoing problems with covid and whether biden's big economic infrastructure climate bill can get passed with the narrow democratic majorities they have in the house and the senate. they're concerned about the supreme court letting states ban abortion now and managing the ongoing hurricane from hurricane
ida and the fall-out from the end of the war in afghanistan and, and, and, and. democrats are working on all of those things, worried about all of those things and others. and the other party, the energy is like, elections are a lie! we don't believe in the election results. even before we know what they are. and if our supporters literally physically mounted a mass assault on the seat of u.s. government because of that, you should leave them alone. if the two parties were like both governing parties, equally responsible mirror images of each other, one slightly to the left and one slightly to the right, you'd think the republicans would be, you know, animated right now about the bills democrats are trying to pass, particularly because one is a $3 trillion bill. you would think that would be what they're talking about, what they're working on. they're not.
that is a marginal concern. what they're still actually trying to do is campaign not to win the next elections by competing with democrats. where all their energy is now is on invalidating elections from here on out. unless they win those elections and maybe even still then. reuters today posted the results of a new serious and fascinating investigation into the threats from trump supporters and right wing operatives against election workers at all levels, threats that haven't gotten any better since november and they're still in full force today and worringly, they are almost never being prosecuted by law enforcement. here's reuters lead today. they documented 102 threats of death or violence received by
more than 40 election officials. excuse me by more than 40 election officials, election workers and their relatives in eight of the most contested battleground states in the 2020 presidential contest. each was explicit enough to put a reasonable person in fear of bodily harm or death. in addition, to the messages that directly threatened violence, hundreds of others contained harassing language that was disturbing, profane, sometimes racist, the intimidation affected all levels of administrators from rank and file all the way up to secretaries of state. almost all of the 102 explicit threats of violence by reuters are inspired by president trump's debunked claims that the election was rigged against him. the messages included highly personal, sometimes sexualized threats of violence or death not only to the officials themselves but also to their family members and also to their children.
in only four incidents out of those 102 threats that reuters documented was reuters able to document an arrest. those four open cases have yet to result in a single conviction. and this is actually a follow-up investigation from reuters. very, very explicit death threats made to the georgia secretary of state, including geographically specific and specifically-timed threats against individual family members, threats so specific they sent folks into hiding. in the intervening months, even in the intervening months since those were publically reported by reuters, not a single person has been arrested, let alone charged with making threats. they document threats to jena
griswold who got threats like these online: quote, be afraid. be very afraid. i hope you die. the same person sent these threats online as well. gina griswold will hang for treason. i would move and change your address, dot, dot, dot, quickly. same man wrote to her an instagram. guess who is going to hang when all the fraud is revealed? hint, look in the mirror. under a childhood photo she posted online to wish her father a happy father's day, the same guy wrote to her, quote, prepare for the gallows. i know where you sleep. i'm watching you sleep. i want you dead. routers reports ( today that police did identify and locate the man who made those threats. despite that, they decided, eh, who cares.
let it slide. no reason to act on any of those. and she's a secretary of state. how well protected do you think like random poll workers feel when they have had these kinds of attacks and direct death threats, direct, specific, repeated from identifiable people? the local elections chief in full ton county, georgia, a man named richard baron received this call, a threat by voice mail. this also warranted no apparent response from law enforcement, at least none that's visible to public reporting. and i'm going to play the call for you. i will warn you. it is short. it is less than 30 seconds but it is unpleasant. if you don't want to hear it, it will give you a chance to mute me for a second. all right. here it comes. >> time is running out, richard. we're coming after you and every mother[ bleep ] that stole this election with our second
amendment. subpoena be damned. you're going to be served lead you [ bleep ]. you will be served lead. >> you will be served lead. we're coming at you with our second amendment. you will be served lead. that was directed to the elections chief of full ton county georgia. and that threat and dozens of other threats to that official and other people who work in that same office were all sent to law enforcement authorities for investigation. nobody was arrested for that threat or any of the threats that came in. but this is where things stand right now in our politics. this is what it's like to be like a professional tech know cattic election worker or poll worker in america right now when these are the animating politics on the american right. now, i'll tell you, there is a really interesting and, i dare
say, heartening story that we've got up next about a new just announced today major effort, a big ticket marquee name effort that is a bipartisan effort to stand up for elections workers and poll workers who are getting these kinds of threats. law enforcement has been next to zero help across the country. even with the justice department setting up a special task force in which they say they're going to go after these things. the on the ground truth is that election workers have been able to get basically no relief in terms of help from local law enforcement or from these people making explicit threats being arrested, even though that is illegal on the face of it. it is illegal to do that to anybody. it is a different level of crime when you do that to somebody. but there is a new effort, a new effort, as i say, a big ticket marquee name effort that is
bipartisan, mounted today, opened today to try to defend and stand up for elections workers who are facing these kinds of threats even as the attacks by the elections keep getting worse. you will want to see this next story. it will restore some of your faith. that's next. of your faith. that's next. ♪ limu emu & doug ♪ oh! are you using liberty mutual's coverage customizer tool? sorry? well, since you asked. it finds discounts and policy recommendations, so you only pay for what you need. limu, you're an animal! who's got the bird legs now? only pay for what you need.
♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ my auntie called me. she said uncle's had a heart attack. i needed him to be here. your heart isn't just yours. protect it with bayer aspirin. be sure to talk to your doctor before you begin an aspirin regimen. why bother mastering something? why test a hybrid engine for over six million miles? why hand tune an audio system? why include the most advanced active safety system in its class standard? because when you want to create an entirely new feeling, the difference between excellence and mastery is all the difference in the world. the lexus es. every curve, every innovation, every feeling, a product of mastery. experience amazing at your lexus dealer.


here's a brand-new thing i don't think has ever been done before. probably because it's never been needed before. it is a new legal effort from a sort of unlikely pair. two very high-profile election lawyers who have their whole careers been on opposite sides. this is the announcement today from bob bauer and republican party super lawyer ben ginz berg. quote, election officials are coming under unprecedented attack for their doing their jobs. some states are trying to criminalize their trained professional judgments. some officials have been the target of threats to themselves
and their families. the two of us have been part san opponents in the past representing opposing partys to the best of our abilities. but at this moment in time, we share a grave concern about a tax on these public servants. we are launching the election official legal defense network, which will connect licensed, qualified pro bono attorneys with election administers who need assistance. state and local election workers in the country can call this toll free number at any time to request to speak to a lawyer who can help them at no cost. this new resource comes as we ghetto day's new reporting from ""reuters"" details how state and local election workers are not just under attacks, they are also still frequently on the receiving end of just a barrage of death threats and harassment from pro trump voters egged on by trump's claims that the election was stolen from him and there has been little effective
response from law enforcement thus far to those threats. one of the notable things about this defense network is the long bipartisan list from election officials across the country who signed on to this mission. their advisory board includes the republican secretary of state from georgia who you will recall was denounced by former president trump were not succumbing. he and his family were briefly forced into hiding by the death threats they received thereafter. also on the board, the democratic state, there were dozens of armed protesters outside her house a month after the presidential election threatening violence if she doesn't overturn biden's victory in that state, too. they are among many other officials of many other parties who have been threatened in states around the country now advising this effort to stand up
and provide top shelf free legal te fence to these election officials who really need defending. joining us is on the advisory board of the new election official which is just announced today. thank you for being with us today. >> i appreciate you covering this,rachel. let me ask you about your own experience these last few months starts after the election and how that led you to decide to take part in this effort. >> yeah. listening to your recounting the ongoing threats, the very specific threats we continue to receive, i was reminded about last december when it took law enforcement nearly 40 minutes to arrive at my home despite knowing an hour before people were going to arrive and it would likely be a gathering at my house that night. so there is, i think, an ongoing
need for more support for election officials. and with this network of 30 bipartisan election administrators, lawyers and experts around the country, it is about essentially protecting and defending those election administrators who protect and defend our democracy every day against these historic, real, specific threats that we are receiving daily, even now eight, nine months into 2021. >> you know, when bob bauer and ben ginsburg first wrote in "the new york times" about the need for this effort in june, they mentioned the threats against election officials but it felt to me or at least my understanding of it at the time was it it was more about new laws being passed in republican-controlled states essentially trying to intimidate people working in the elections system in a partisan way, making it a criminal offense or making it a punishable offense for elections workers to do all the things they have to do in their
job, hanging a dam close over all of them (. it is a two-lane idea, both that election officials may need to be defended from new forms of legal liability that are written as intimidation into these new laws but also to try to get them some sort of recourse against people that continue to make these threats. i guess having been through this yourself most acutely in december, did you think these threats would have eased out of by now and that wouldn't have been a concern going further. >> in the weeks up to january 6th and the strategy that happened in our capital that day, every week would begin with this being it, that we would be able to move on, certify the election and prepare for the next round of elections. after january 6th, we realized that this is not the end. this is just the beginning. and we have seen really how the big lie, this idea that last
year's election was anything but a secure e flexion of the will of the people. this big lie has become the foundation not just for hundreds of laws that made it harder to vote but new laws empowering partisan officials to interfere with the counting of the votes, with the professional administration of elections and to really stoke fear in many election professionals, fear that could keep them for doing their jobs, not just to protect and administer the election securely but to ensure that every vote counts and every vote is heard. those who see it as our responsibility to defend democracy, we will keep doing everything we can to make sure we can trust the results of that election. with that said, we need this force, this network that is being created to protect and defend all of those thousands of election administrators all across the country who are living in fear right now against these ongoing threats, not just
these violent threats but these potential legal threats against them with these new laws in place simply to try to scare them from doing their jobs well. >> michigan secretary of state jocelyn benson on the advisory of the election official legal defense network, thank you for joining us tonight. thanks for helping us understand. >> thanks for having me,rachel. thank you.   if you are a lawyer watching me right now, particularly if you are affiliated with some big law firm that does pro bono work, if you go to the legal defense website, there is two places that you can input information in there. one is if you are an election official who needs help, you can ask for it there. the other thing they're asking for there is they're soliciting help from lawyers. they want good lawyers to represent election officials potentially in all 50 states in the country to sign up and volunteer to do that work. we'll post online on our website tonight how to reach them
directly. all right. we'll be right back. stay with us. ight back. stay with us and ask your doctor about biktarvy. biktarvy is a complete, one-pill, once-a-day treatment used for h-i-v in certain adults. it's not a cure, but with one small pill, biktarvy fights h-i-v to help you get to and stay undetectable. that's when the amount of virus is so low it cannot be measured by a lab test. research shows people who take h-i-v treatment every day and get to and stay undetectable can no longer transmit h-i-v through sex. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects include a buildup of lactic acid and liver problems. do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your doctor about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b, do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your doctor. common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache. if you're living with hiv, keep loving who you are. and ask your doctor if biktarvy is right for you.
i order my groceries online now. shingles doesn't care. i keep my social distance. shingles doesn't care. i stay within my family bubble. shingles doesn't care. because if you've had chicken pox, you're already carrying the virus that causes shingles. in fact, about 1 in 3 people will develop shingles, and the risk only increases as you age. so what can protect you against shingles? shingrix protects. now you can protect yourself from shingles with a vaccine proven to be over 90% effective. shingrix is a vaccine used to prevent shingles in adults 50 years and older. shingrix does not protect everyone and is not for those with severe allergic reactions to its ingredients or to a previous dose. an increased risk of guillain-barré syndrome
was observed after vaccination with shingrix. the most common side effects are pain, redness, and swelling at the injection site, muscle pain, tiredness, headache, shivering, fever, and upset stomach. talk to your pharmacist or doctor about protecting yourself with shingrix. shingles doesn't care. but we do. ♪♪ energy is everywhere... even in a little seedling. which, when turned into fuel, can help power a plane. at chevron's el segundo refinery, we're looking to turn plant-based oil into renewable gasoline, jet and diesel fuels. our planet offers countless sources of energy. but it's only human to find the ones that could power a better future. my retirement plan with voya keeps me moving forward. they guide me with achievable steps that give me confidence. this is my granddaughter...she's cute like her grandpa. voya doesn't just help me get to retirement... ...they're with me all the way through it. voya. be confident to and through retirement.
what i've learned from so many years . . . . . . of living with hiv is to enjoy every moment. my name is hugo and i'm on biktarvy. biktarvy is a complete, one-pill, once-a-day treatment . . . . . . used for hiv in certain adults. it's not a cure, but with one small pill, biktarvy fights hiv to help you get to . . . . . . and stay undetectable. that's when the amount of virus is so low, it cannot be measured by a lab test. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects include a build-up of lactic acid and liver problems. do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your doctor about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding . . . . . . or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b, do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your doctor. common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache. if you're living with hiv . . . . . . keep loving who you are. and ask your doctor if biktarvy is right for you.
i just drove like a bat out of hell to get to the day care because i knew that shelly would meet me there and get the kids out. i pulled over and i ran down there and i found the kids. and that was the happiest moment of my life. and, you know, right there, turning on a dime, it became the worst moment of my life because i knew shelly would have been there if she could have. >> that man's name is dawn marshall. he lost his wife in the terrorist attack at the pentagon. the reason we have that footage of him telling that story when it was still so fresh in his mind is because of a project by an artist who wanted to give people space to just talk in the months after 9/11. she set up with a booth with camera and microphone.
it was totally private. they were the ones who would hit record. they would hit stop when they were done. that little plywood booth traveled from new york city to the pentagon to shanksville pa where united flight 93 crashed. the stories collected in that booth are just raw and incredible. lots of people who were witnesses to the attacks, lots of people who lost loved one. now david belton and johnson brought this story forward. they recreated that booth. they tracked down a bunch of people who participated in the project 20 years ago so those same folks could tell their story now. and the resulting film is called "memory box." it is incredible and it is here tonight as soon as thisshowis done. we willshowit tonight with no commercial breaks. it starts in 15 minutes from now. you should watch it. to try to convince you, i willshowyou one more clip of dawn
marshall. this is his 20 years later in 2021 telling his his story since then. >> losing a spouse was a horrible place to be. i mean, when i opened that booth door, it was almost literally looking out into darkness and wondering what was coming next. i didn't know. i didn't know how things were going to shake out. we moved to shepherdstown, west virginia. i wanted to get the kids out of d.c. because i was afraid there could be another attack. i lived in pretty constant fear of that. so we had been there about a month and i was trying to be a full-time dad. i thought the kids needed that. but obviously it was not always easy. then one day i was cleaning out
the family car and i apparently didn't do that very often because i found a little notepad under one of the seats, and it was shelly's notepad. it had a bunch of, you know, grocery lists things like that, but it also had some words that she wrote down. and they were, we have only a finite number of days on this earth. make them extraordinary and fill them with passion. and i have sort of taken that as my guidance from her. to approach life with purpose and make a positive difference. >> once the participants were done speaking to the camera, they were allowed to write notes
to leave on the new booth, the 2021 booth. you could see him doing that here. his note was the same as his wife's. make your life extraordinary and fill it with passion. again, the film is called "memory box." you should plan to watch it. okay? okay. okay okay of an asthma attack... that doesn't happen. this is the sound of better breathing. fasenra is a different kind of asthma medication. it's not a steroid or inhaler. fasenra is an add-on treatment for asthma driven by eosinophils. it's one maintenance dose every 8 weeks. it helps prevent asthma attacks, improve breathing, and lower use of oral steroids. nearly 7 out of 10 adults with asthma may have elevated eosinophils. fasenra is designed to target and remove them. fasenra is not a rescue medication or for other eosinophilic conditions. fasenra may cause allergic reactions. get help right away if you have swelling of your face, mouth, and tongue, or trouble breathing.
don't stop your asthma treatments unless your doctor tells you to. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection or your asthma worsens. headache and sore throat may occur. this is the sound of fasenra. ask your doctor about fasenra. if you can't afford your medication, astrazeneca may be able to help. ♪ ♪ ♪ hey google.
♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ you probably think visa is a credit card company, huh? ♪ but it's actually a network. ♪ connecting just about everyone to just about everyone else. ♪ it can open eyes with a cup of coffee and change minds on what makes a business, a business. and it is working to connect everyone, everywhere. so, meet visa. a network working for everyone. ♪
hi, i'm ron reagan, an unabashed atheist, and i'm alarmed, as you may be, by the intrusions of religion into our secular government. that's why i'm asking you to join the freedom from religion foundation, the nation's largest and most effective association of atheists and agnostics working to keep state and church separate, just like our founders intended. please join the freedom from religion foundation today. ron reagan, lifelong atheist, not afraid of burning in hell. ♪♪♪ it's velveeta versus the other guys. clearly, nothing melts like velveeta. ♪♪♪ hi, my name is cherrie. i'm 76 and i live on the oregon coast. clearly, nothing melts like velveeta. my husband, sam, we've been married 53 years. we love to walk on the beach. i have two daughters and then two granddaughters.
i noticed that memories were not there like they were when i was much younger. since taking prevagen, my memory has gotten better and it's like the puzzle pieces have all been [click] put together. prevagen. healthier brain. better life.   have a look at the front page today of the "times news" of idaho. it says "hospital rationing begins, northern idaho crisis." they are implementing crisis standards of care for ten hospitals and medical centers in north idaho due to the overwhelming covid-19 surge
there. quote, those deemed in most need of care and those most likely to benefit from it are put on scarcity lists. others with lower needs of surviving will be given comfort care to help keep them pain-free, whether they recover recover." >> we got this video today it's
a conference room turned into a room. and you can see a new oxygen tank on the ground about to be hoisted into place, double the size of the old one. officials at the hospital are running out of options. that's why they've had to go to these standards of cares. officials in the state are warning they're dangerously close to implementing these same rationing standards, same crisis standards of care statewide in idaho and they are issuing a stark warning saying wear your seat belt, take medications as prescribed because that's where we are in terms of hospital prospects. keep idaho this in your thoughts. we'll be right back. this in yo thoughts we'll be right back. olutions
to help our family's special needs... giving us confidence in our future... ...and in kevin's. voya. well planned. well invested. well protected. why bother mastering something? why test a hybrid engine for over six million miles? why hand tune an audio system? why include the most advanced active safety system in its class standard? because when you want to create an entirely new feeling, the difference between excellence and mastery is all the difference in the world. the lexus es. every curve, every innovation, every feeling, a product of mastery. experience amazing at your lexus dealer. >> tech: every customer has their own safelite story. experience amazing this couple was on a camping trip... ...when their windshield got a chip. they drove to safelite for a same-day repair. and with their insurance, it was no cost to them. >> woman: really? >> tech: that's service you can trust. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ liberty mutual customizes car insurance so you only pay for what you need. how much money can liberty mutual save you?
one! two! three! four! five! 72,807! 72,808... dollars. yep... everything hurts. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪
with clean, fresh ingredients, panera's new chicken, sausage and pepperoni flatbread is a mouthwatering explosion of yes. craft? yes! heartiness? yes! living life to the flavor-fullest? heck yes. panera. live your yes. free delivery on our app.

this saturday, as you know, it's the 20th year since the terrorist attacks of september 11th, 2001. for the 20-year commemoration of the takes, president biden and first lady jill biden on saturday will visit the world trade center in new york city and they will visit the pentagon and also visit shanksville, pennsylvania where united flight 93 crashed after an uprising by the passengers that may have stopped that flight from crashing into the united states capitol. as i mentioned earlier in theshow, tonight msnbc is premiering a new documentary called "memory box." it begins with the stories told years ago by people who lived through the september 11th attacks in one way or another. captured on video by an artist who wanted to give people space and freedom to tell their own stories in their own terms uninterrupted. and those recordings, people
speaking in their own terms, are amazing enough. what is more remarkable, the footage from those same people, the same people speaking today about how their stories didn't end with september 11th. they've continued through these 20 years. it is powerful, it is ultimately hopeful, it is totally worth watching all the way through. after you watch it, stick around afterwards for a conversation moderated by my colleague jonathan capehart. it airs commercial free right here starting right now.   anyway, hit the red button and it will start the camera. >> oh, it did start it. >> it's not going to light