president who are running this and say this is a pretty cool tool, i wonder what i might do with it? >> it is a good point about all the potential abuses of power and certainly that equal branch of congress might want to look into this. that is "all in" for this thursday night. the "rachelmaddowshow" starts right now. good evening. >> i want to say before you go, that we have to ask you and your staff to move things around to accommodate things for ourshow, and i am very, very grateful to you guys for being able to do that. i made your work day much harder. i'm sorry. i owe you and i am thankful. >> i'll do anything for you. no worries. >> never say that. thank you. appreciate it. >> thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. happy to have you here. i will tell you in advance we are having slight technical
difficulties in terms of the technical aspects of getting things on theshowso if anything looks unlike it usually does, don't worry, nothing is wrong, at least nothing wrong that you need to worry about. plenty is wrong. trust me. all right, we start tonight in marshall, texas, in east texas, really, really east texas, it is close to the louisiana state line, not far from shreveport, louisiana. and she was born there. in 1926. in marshall, texas. far east texas. but after being born in marshall, texas, in the 20s, when she was 12, in june, 1939, she and her family moved 200 miles west all the way to ft. worth. it was her and her two siblings and her mom and dad, from sleeve port louisiana, to ft. worth, and paid $165 for their house on east any street and new york
avenue in ft. worth in the fifth ward in ft. worth. a neighborhood today that is hemmed in on three sides bay zillion lanes of interstate and major highways that sort of have the effect of cutting it off from a lot of the rest of ft. worth, but back in the late 1930s, that of course was before all of the interstates and all of that, and the most important thing to know about that neighborhood when it came to young 12-year-old opal and her family, was that they were a black family that was moving in, from way out east by the louisiana line, and that neighborhood they were moving into was a mostly white neighborhood at east annie street in ft. worth, they moved there in june of 1939 and told by a local real estate agent they would be fine even though they were a black family moving into a mostly white neighborhood. it was not fine. they did not last a week. and it made the local news in the headlines that are still hard to look at today.
ft. worth crowd attacks negroes. violence climaxed, observance of negro emancipation, a crowd of 500 persons stormed the resident of otis flake, negro, at 1940 east annie street. the men hurled rocks at the house and entered the dwelling and began carrying furniture in the street after mr. flake, wife and three children fled from the house. flake moved into the house last friday, for four nights since they've been there, police have watched the area, attempting to disperse crowds that assembled on a nearby corner to protest the moving of negros into a white residential district. here is another one. negro driven out. furniture burned. mob evicts black from white neighborhood. police today were investigating a near riot which developed last night when a group of approximately 500 persons drove otis flake, negro, from his recently-purchased home. here's another one. negro tenants are protested.
this one described, quote, aroused residents who had been fighting against the encroachment of negroes in the area. that one was actually published in the ft. worth telegram before the attack that drove the family from their home. this article, negro tenants are protested, described a crowd of about 150 people that had to be dispersed from outside their home, on that saturday night. it is quite possible that article from the ft. worth star telegram about the aroused residents fighting encroachment of negroes was part of how the crowd the next night, sunday night, ended up at 500 instead of 150. and that 500 strong crowd is the one that actually burned them out. about ten years ago, bud kennedy at the ft. worth star telegram dug up some of these old headlines about the attack on the flake family for a column he wrote about it from the local headlines and the stories he was able it piece together from the time, he was able to sort of fit
together the way it evolved. police might have said they were investigating the quote mobbing, police told the local press at the time that in fact the mob destroyed the family's furniture, broke windows to the house, damaged the building, hit a plan at the scene with a baseball bat. the next day, quote, youths came into the house and turned on the gas jets and then fled so the building would burn, too. even though that's what happened and the police were supposedly on it and they had been on it for four straight nights by the time the family was finally burned out, nobody was ever arrested apparently. according to bud kennedy, quote, nothing further was ever published about the incident or any investigation. and like i said, she was 12 years old when it happened. one the three children of otis and maddie flake burned out of that home in june 1939. she was interviewed about it later by a reporter an gelique
jackson, people gathered, the police couldn't control them, my dad came home with a gun. if they had given us an opportunity to stay there and be thab nas, they would have found out we didn't want any more than they had, a decent place to stay, jobs that paid, to be able to go to school in the neighborhood, even if it was a segregated school. we would have made good neighbors, she said. but they didn't give us an opportunity. and i felt like everybody needs an opportunity. again, that attack that burned the flake family out of their home on what was literally the fourth night they were trying to sleep in that home, that happened in 1939, the summer of 1939 in ft. worth, texas. but i want to put back up on the screen there for a second one piece from that coverage from the time, that quote about when exactly it happened. remember this lead here from that first story from the a. p that i mentioned, violence climaxed observance of negro emancipation late tonight. when a crowd estimated at 500
persons stormed the resident of otis flake. violence climaxed observance of negro emancipation. what that awkward language, this happened specifically on june 19th 1939, during the observance of the emancipation of african-americans in the united states. it was june 19th, 1865 when general gordon granger and his union troops rode into galveston, texas, after the end of the civil war, and they issued, he issued general order number three, for the first time bringing news to the 250,000 enslaved black people in texas at the time that by law they were now free. it was actually a huge mural there now in galveston, on the site where general granger issued that proclamation. it says absolute equality. do you see that? and june 19th has been celebrated in texas, in the state of texas, for a very long
time. it has been a paid state holiday in texas since 1979. as in that local news article in 1939, the day was sometimes delicately described as the observance of emancipation, june dean -- juneteenth, emancipation day, liberation day, today it is a national holiday. despite the attack on her family home in 1939, when she was just 12 years ago old, both young enough and old enough to be deeply scarred and scared for life by something like that, young miss opal, again 12 years old when it happened, she survived that attack along with her two siblings and her mother and father, she would go on to play an important role in local celebration of that holiday in terms of, specifically in ft. worth where she lived the rest of her life, she was a teacher, she went on to work for local
charities, she ultimately became part of the tarrant county black historical genealogical society which led the local juneteenth celebrations every year, but in 2016 when it was president obama's final year in office as president, as america's first black president, ms. opal, her name is now opal lee, she basically decided she was going to go for broke, that she had been doing this work her whole life, she had a special reason for this to mean something very important to her, to turn it into something positive, in her life. but she decided she would go big. she had written a letter to president obama, essentially sort of wording him in the nicest possible way that she was going to come to washington at some point and the point of her trip would be that this texas holiday, juneteenth should be celebrated all over the country, it should be a national holiday marking the end of slavery, not just a texas holiday. she thought we should actually celebrate as a country from june the 19th all the way to july the 4th for independence day.
same way we celebrate mardi gras for a big chunk of february, she was saying let's celebrate liberation and independence as a whole country together, for the whole end of june to the first week in july, juneteenth, in july 4th, let's make that our national reflection and celebration of independence, liberation, freedom. so she had sent president obama her letter. but then in 2016 when it was his last year in office, she decided she would go see him. she would walk to washington, d.c., from ft. worth, texas. she's 89 years old when she did that. again, that was 2016. she has been leading a national effort, a national effort to try to have the holiday recognized all these years, she said that she wanted to bring 100,000 signatures on a petition to congress when she went to capitol hill in 2020, by the time she actually got to capitol hill with her petition, in
september of last year, september 2020, she didn't have 100,000 signatures on her petition, she had 1.5 million signatures on her petition. now, she did not succeed in her goal on that trip to washington september of last year. but you know, try, try again. in february of this year, the legislation actually to create the holiday was introduced yet again, and this time, well, you know, like she said, everybody needs an opportunity, and when the choice passed it yesterday, ms. opal, ms. opal lee, 94 years old now, says she was overwhelmed with emotion. >> i've got so many different feelings all gurgling up here, i don't know what to call them all. i'm so delighted to know that finally we've got a juneteenth day. >> so many feelings gurgling up
here, i don't know what to call them all. the house today held a signing ceremony to formally convey their passage of the bill and send it to the president for his signature. they don't have to do that. but for something like this, you do that, right? when republican wisconsin senator ron johnson begrudgingly dropped his opposition and the senate passed it, the president of the senate signed it. she doesn't have to do that. but for something like this, you do it, right? president biden was in geneva for his summit with the russian president only yesterday afternoon, it was not at all clear when he would be back and planning to sign the bill, but you know, june 19th is saturday so a little hurry-up was going to be worth it to be able to celebrate as a country for the first time this year, not just this year, but this week, right now and by right now, i mean this afternoon, in the east room at the white house. ms. opal lee was on hand for the signing ceremony. she was given pride of place with a front row seat alongside
roughly 80 members of congress and local officials and activists and community leaders who advocated for this. her outsized role in the events that led to pass average the bill also warranted a place for her in the president's remarks today. >> throughout history, juneteenth has been known by many names. jubilee day. freedom day. liberation day. emancipation day. and today, a national holiday. [ applause ] >> and looking out across this room, i see the advocates, the activists, the leaders who have been calling for this day for so long, including the one and only ms. opal lee.
>> who just received a very special recognition from the president of the united states. >> opal lee today receiving a special thanks and congratulations from a kneeling president of the united states, due see that very often. -- you don't see that very often. after that acknowledgment, it was president biden's turn to mark the occasion. the president noted that juneteenth celebrates a day of what he called profound wait but also profound power. a day on which americans must remember, quote, the moral stain and the terrible toll that slavery took on the country, but also its extraordinary capacity to heal and to hope and to make a better version of ourselves. president biden said today, it was not enough just to commemorate juneteenth to honor the true meaning of juneteenth, we have to continue toward that
promise because we have not got therein yet. he said his administration is committed to getting there. he also referenced the continued attacks on voting right, led by republican-led legislatures across the country, saying the journey would not be easy, so long as the sacred right to vote remains under attack. and then he, too, singled out ms. lee for helping us to get to where we find ourselves today as a country. >> blessed to mark the day, and ms. opal lee, and i want to say god love her. [ applause ] >> i had the honor of meeting her a year ago and she told me she loved me and i believed. it i wanted to believe it. ms. opal, you're incredible. a daughter of texas. grandmother of the movement to make juneteenth a national
holiday. you are an incredible woman, you really, are she made it her mission to see that this day came. it was almost a singular mission. she's walked for miles and miles, literally and figuratively, to bring attention to juneteenth. to make this day possible. i ask once again, we all stand and give her a warm welcome. [ applause ] >> 94 years old and remarkable acknowledgment of the work of ms. opal lee today at the white house. you think about the two sides of this in her life. right? 12 years old, juneteenth, 1939, her family is burned out of their home in texas, by a white mob. there's never anybody held accountable. never anybody arrested. she lives her life celebrating the juneteenth holiday in texas. helping texans recognize it. and they do in that state. she decides the country needs to recognize this holiday. not because of what was done
wrong to her, that she wants the country to know about, it's the last thing she wants to talk about with the interviews about this, it is about celebrating the end of slavery, turning that day which for her family was the darkest day imaginable, into something that is bright and positive and a moment of reflection for the country. after that recognition today, from the president, of course it was time to sign the bill. the president called it an enormous honor to do so. he said today's signing would go down as one of the greatest honors of his presidency, he made sure that ms. lee got a special souvenir to mark the historic day, she got the first pen he used and seemed bowled over to the point she dropped it and vice president harris picked it up for her and she said thank you. this is not to say things are not going to get weird about the observance and recognition of this holiday. things are particularly weird on
the right, right now in american politics so how is this holiday going to roll out across the country? we'll see. congress and the president cannot actually proclaim a national holiday. it is being short-handed today as a national holiday but it's not. congress and the president can't force the wide observance of something in the same way in all a states. they can only declare a federal holiday, not a national holiday, and that just means it's to be observed by federal workers wherever they work in the country, it's also to be observed in washington, d.c. but in every state, it's every state's call as to whether or not they acknowledge and recognize the holiday, and how they do so. and it's an interesting political dynamic that in texas, juneteenth has been observed as a paid state holiday, since the end of the '70s, i mean maybe that will take some of the fear out of it for republican-controlled states around the country that texas does it and has long done it and it's okay, we'll see, the photos from the president's signing ceremony today will reflect for
history, that republican senator john cornyn of texas was there at the desk when the president signed it among all of those democrats, and ms. opal lee. yes, ms. opal lee was there and all of those democrats who supported this but so was john cornyn of texas and maybe that will help. but you know, there is at least one republican state legislature candidate in virginia who is already proclaimed that this weekend he will hold a juneteenth community shooting day. a gun rally, a community shooting for juneteenth. the good folks at fox news prepared last night for the signing of this new law commemorating the end of slavery by running an interview by one of the prime time hosts all about how black people just have lower iqs than white people, and that explains why black people do get paid less for their work, and why they should get paid less because of the biological inferiority of the black race.
that aws wasn't 1939 at that -- that wasn't 1939 at that mob attack on east annie street in ft. worth. that interview on the fox news streaming channel conducted by one of the prime time hosts, that was last night. we have a new national holiday commemorating the end of slavery, as of today. federal workers will have tomorrow off and in honor of the juneteenth holiday, and it is saturday, it will be observed tomorrow, we've got a new holiday for that as of today. thanks in large part to opal lee. we've also got a long, long, long way to go on this, and it is not going to be a straight line. be a straight line rself.♪ you look a little lost. i can't find my hotel. oh. oh! ♪♪ this is not normal. no. ♪♪ so? ♪♪ right? go with us and find millions of flexible options,
all in our app. expedia. it matters who you travel with. did you know prilosec otc can stop frequent heartburn expedia. before it begins? heartburn happens when stomach acid refluxes into the esophagus. prilosec otc uses a unique delayed-release formula that helps it pass through the tough stomach acid. it then works to turn down acid production, blocking heartburn at the source. with just one pill a day, you get 24-hour heartburn protection. prilosec otc. one pill a day, 24 hours, zero heartburn.
need long-lasting freshness? try new febreze unstopables touch fabric spray. it doesn't just eliminate odors... simply shake and spray to unlock the breakthrough power of touch-activated scent technology. that lasts, even hours later! that's because febreze touch stores scent in your fabrics so you get bursts of freshness with every touch. your whole world will come alive. welcome home to fresh with new febreze touch.
♪♪ for deb, living with constipation with belly pain was the same old story for years. trying this. doing that. spending countless days right here. still came the belly pain, discomfort, and bloating. awful feelings she kept sugar-coating. finally, with the help of her doctor, it came to be. that her symptoms were all signs of ibs-c. and that's why she said yes to adding linzess. linzess is not a laxative. it helps you have more frequent and complete bowel movements. and is proven to help relieve overall abdominal symptoms-belly pain, discomfort, and bloating. do not give linzess to children less than six and it should not be given to children six to less than 18, it may harm them. do not take linzess if you have a bowel blockage. get immediate help if you develop unusual or severe stomach pain, especially with bloody or black stools. the most common side effect is diarrhea, sometimes severe. if it's severe, stop taking linzess and call your doctor right away. other side effects include gas, stomach area pain, and swelling. could your story also be...
about ibs-c? talk to your doctor and say yes to linzess. ♪♪   it was just three days after the horrific world changing terrorist attacks of 9/11 when congress voted on a resolution to authorize the use of u.s. military force in response. that legally and formally started what would ultimately become known as the war on terror. but in the immediate wake of that attack on the country, again, just a couple of days after the attack, not a single member of congress voted against authorizing that use of military force. except for one. >> this unspeakable act on the united states is really forced me however to rely on my moral compass, my conscience, and my god for direction. september 11th changed the world. our deepest fears now haunt us.
yet i am convinced that military action will not prevent further acts of international terrorism against the united states. >> can you imagine how scary it must have been to stand up and say that? we were so terrorized and terrified as a country, but to have that courage of conviction to have that, to have that sense of purpose and moral compass, to have the bravery to stand up and say this horrific act has made me come to a different conclusion than all the rest of you, than every other member of congress, imagine what that took at the moment. california congressman barbara lee was the sole member of congress who decided that day that the tragedy of 9/11 just days earlier, horrible as it was, was not a good justification for an open-ended legal authorization to get the u.s. involved anywhere in the world, in what would become decades of war.
a year later, the house was set to vote on yet another blanket authorization for military force to the invasion of iraq. that time when the vote came, barbara lee was not alone. 132 of her fellow house members voted for barbara lee against authorizing the use of force for the iraq war. that wasn't enough to stop the bill. so instead of one forever war, america then had two. this year will mark 20 years since congressman barbara lee took that first sole vote against america's unending war. the legal authorization that allowed america to use military force in the name of 9/11 in a way that was unended and global. during the time that those authorizations for the use of force have remained in place, they have been used as justification for all kinds of military interventions all around the world, even ones that had precisely zero to do with iraq or afghanistan or 9/11.
it became a blanket authorization for the use of military force at the president's say-so without congress ever having to weigh in again. but now, all of a sudden, things appear to be changing. today, the house of representatives voted on a resolution to repeal the authorization for use of military force, the second one, the one that started the iraq war, the lead sponsor of the bill to end one of america's longest wars, to end, to repeal that authorization for the use of military force was none other than the same congressman, barbara lee, and this time, she not only had company, but the majority was on her side. the resolution to repeal the authorization for the use of military force passed persist. persist. persist. persist. it takes forever and then all of a sudden it happens. joining us now is democratic california congressman barbara lee, congresswoman lee, it is a pleasure to have you here, thank you so much, it has been such a
huge day today. >> thank you. nice being you with,rachel. >> before i actually ask you about the that, i have to ask you about the juneteenth vote and the signing ceremony. am i correct that you were at the signing ceremony today. >> oh, yes. >> when president biden made it a law? >> thank you for covering this,rachel, this is quite an historical moment for our country. we need it make sure the stories are told about everyone in our country, including african-americans and the horrific barbaric middle passage and slavery and what happened, and i have to say it's personal for me also, because my grandfather, who helped raise me, in terms of, was born in gafrlz, texas, in 1875, and my great grandmother, fanny wilson, was enslaved around galveston and in one of the small towns, so this is really a major deal. we celebrated it all our lives. i moved to california in 1960, but i continue to celebrate juneteenth in my family, and my
family did. and this is really a remarkable moment but it also is a moment for us to recommit ourselves to finish the unfinished business of justice and racial equity and true freedom for african-americans. >> for you, given the personal connection that you just described to the national commemoration of juneteenth, and your personal role, your honestly legendary bravery on the issue of authorizing military force after the terrorist attacks of 9/11, to have these two things coming together at the same time in the house like literally within 24 hours, this must be a pretty momentous time in your life. this must feel like you've sort of risen to the peak. >>rachel, i tell you, it's overwhelming in some respects but it just reminds me that this is the long hall we're in, it's not a sprint, it's a marathon and i hope our young people understand that the fight for justice, the fight for democracy, and to protect our constitution, sometimes it just doesn't happen right away, but
we have to be persistent, we have to know what we're doing, we have to believe, my dad was in the military, 25 years, i'm a military brat, and there was no way that i could authorize the use of force forever, and that was a 60 word resolution right after 9/11. authorization that i just could not support. >> it was interesting to me to see that, i think it was 49 republican members of the house joined more than 200 democrats in making this vote happen. i wanted to ask if you were surprised by how bipartisan this vote was. i feel like i've seen some interesting contours where this issue of authorizing military force and indeed the use of american military force around the world doesn't always fall neatly on partisan lines, i wanted to ask those vote totals surprised you at all and if that gives you any confidence in what happens in the senate which would need to do the same thing in order to get to president
biden's desk. >> he built support over the years and i want to say i want to thank the chair of the foreign affairs committee, congressman gregory meek, and the american legions supported it, americans for prosperity, so this just didn't happen overnight, we have built bipartisan support over the years, and i was very pleased that we got 49 republican votes. i've been working with so many, and i have to remember, walter jones, who passed away a few years ago, he helped me start making this a bipartisan effort. and so here we are now, move oggen to the senate, i've spoked to senator cain, we are cautiously optimistic that we will be able to move this forward oochs. the president has indicated he is ready to sign. it he issued what we call a statement of support, a sap, and we have to keep working and i'm hopeful and confident that sooner or later, hopefully this year, we will get this to president biden's desk for his
signature. >> it is your work that is bearing fruit tonight in so many ways. i don't know about your personal situation in your life right now, congressman lee, but you better have somebody who has bought you flowers or at least a cocktail tonight, because this is the culmination of a lot of very hard work and it's a testament to your leadership, ma'am, thank you so much. >> thank you,rachel. really enjoyed being with you.   all right. as i said, that bill that passed the house today, in an overwhelming vote, and a very bipartisan vote, it now heads to the senate, and as congresswoman lee mentioned there, the chief advocate for repealing this, this authorization for the use of military force, chief advocate for repealing in the senate, has been virginia democratic senator tim kaine and happens to sit on the senate foreign relations committee, the first place it gets a vote in the senate, senator kaine joins us now. senator kaine, thank you for being here. i appreciate you taking the time tonight. >>rachel, great to be here with
you and especially to follow barbara, she has been so fantastic on this issue. juneteenth and amf repeal, she needs to buy a lottery ticket before midnight tonight because i think today is a very lucky day. senator, she said that she's talked with you about what happens here next, and as i have mentioned, i feel like the partisan lines don't map neatly on to this issue, either in terms of using military force in specific instances or the end of the open-ended authorizations where it never has to come back to congress and cede the power to the president in the way that the constitution didn't mean for us to, do because it doesn't have neat partisan line, neat partisan mapping, i feel like sometimes these things are hard to predict in the senate. do you share congresswoman lee's cautious optimism that this repeal is going to pass the senate too? >>rachel, doirks and i'm not so
cautious. i think we're going to get a great vote in the senate foreign relations committee on tuesday. i have a co-sponsor to repeal both the iraq war resolution, 1991 and 2002, and congress passes these war resolutions and never repeals them and they float out there in space like dom zombies that can be used by mischief making executives that can do damage. and congress doesn't have a track record of repealing theseauthorizations but together with todd young, constitutional conservative from indiana, marine veteran, he is my chief co-sponsor on this bill, so if you think of barbara lee, one of the most progressive members of congress, todd young, constitutional conservative, i'm 63 years old, i still haven't figured out a label for myself, but i think we have got a great path to a strong bipartisan senate vote tuesday and then we
have both the house bill, that barbara has championed, our senate bill, and then we're also writing the defense authorizing bill right now, and that might also be a place to put the repeal of the iraq resolution. so we've got a couple of vehicles, we're going to have to talk about the fastest way to get this to joe biden's desk. but this will be a big historic step and you wrote a book about this in 2012, your book "drift" to congress declares war to the legislative branch andno other country does it that way and that's what our framers decided would be best and we drifted to unilateral executive wars and that has been to our nation's detriment and this is the power of one branch to try to pull some of this power back to the way it was intended to be. >> thank you for plugging my vote. this might be a first in cable news history where the guest plugs the host's book. you know, this is man bites dog.
but i will say, you know, because of that dynamic that you were jibing there, that very basic constitutional dynamic, which i think is at play here, it seems to me like an almost dispositive thing, like a really important part of this, that president biden supports doing this. i mean the beneficiary of these open-ended authorizations where military force is, can be used anywhere in the world indefinitely without it ever having to come back to congress for their say-so, the beneficiary of that is the commander in chief who can then order military action without having to consult with congress. for a president to say, you know what, i should not have that power in an open-ended way, we should return to the way that the constitution intended these authorizations should be ended and if we need a new one for a specific reason we will pass it then and it won't be open ended. that just seems like a counter intuitive thing for a president to agree to. was that essentially the spark to finally get this done, after all of the debate that you and congresswoman lee have led on
this over all of these years? >> i would say, you know, barbara has been a spark, and i praised todd young my republican colleague, but i think the ingredient that really has been key is joe biden. and what i would say, it's joe biden's confidence and his competence. no one who has been president of the united states since lbj has understood more the powers of the article in congress than joe biden. 36 years in the senate. chairman of the senate foreign relations committee. and it takes an extremely self-confident president to say i want to inhabit every square centimeter of the article two powers, but i'm not threatened by a congress inhabiting every square centimeter of the article one powers. most presidents feel threatened when congress starts to exert some interest in war powers issues. joe biden doesn't feel threatened. he understands congress has to be as vigorous and protective of
article one powers as the president is of article two powers. and so i think we will successfully repeal the zombie iraq authorization, 1991 and 2002 and my hope is by september, the 20th anniversary of the 2001 authorization, to wage war against nonstate terrorist groups who attack us, i think we will hopefully reach a handshake deal with the white house about a way to more narrowly describe and describe to the american public, and provide limits on our actions against nonstate terrorist groups and we're working very closely with the white house on, this and it is just night and day to have a white house that wants to work on this versus one that sees it as a threat to their own prerogatives. >> right. exactly. one who not only understands the constitutional prerogatives here
but isn't insecure about them, it is amazing how much progress you can make once you drop that. tim kaine, who has led and educated i think on this issue for so long, this is a big step forward, i'm sure the next few days will be really interested as it heads to the senate. thanks for helping us out tonight. keep us apprised. >> thank you. >> much more ahead. stay with us. >> thank you. >> much more ahead stay with us is having healthy gums. keep yours healthy with new crest advanced gum restore. it's clinically proven to detoxify below the gum line, and it restores by helping heal gums in as little as seven days. because you can't have a healthy smile, without healthy gums. advanced gum restore from crest. the #1 toothpaste brand in america.

do you have a life insurance policy you no longer need? now you can sell your policy, even a term policy, for an immediate cash payment. call coventry direct to learn more. we thought we had planned carefully for our retirement. but we quickly realized that we needed a way to supplement our income. our friends sold their policy to help pay for their medical bills and that got me thinking. maybe selling our policy could help with our retirement. i'm skeptical, so i did some research and called coventry direct. they explained life insurance is a valuable asset that can be sold. we learned that we can sell all of our policy or keep part of it with no future payments, who knew? we sold our policy. now we can relax and enjoy our retirement
as we had planned. if you have one hundred thousand dollars or more of life insurance you may qualify to sell your policy. don't cancel or let your policy lapse without finding out what it's worth. visit conventrydirect.com to find out if you policy qualifies. or call the number on your screen. coventry direct, redefining insurance. overwhelmed by the ups and downs of frequent mood swings of bipolar i? ask about vraylar. some medicines only treat the lows or highs. vraylar effectively treats depression, acute manic or mixed episodes of bipolar i in adults. full-spectrum relief for all bipolar i symptoms with just one pill, once a day. elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis have an increased risk of death or stroke. call your doctor about unusual changes in behavior or suicidal thoughts. antidepressants can increase these in children and young adults. report fever, stiff muscles, or confusion, which may mean a life-threatening reaction, or uncontrollable muscle movements,
which may be permanent. side effects may not appear for several weeks. high cholesterol and weight gain, and high blood sugar, which can lead to coma or death, may occur. movement dysfunction, sleepiness, and stomach issues are common side effects. and you can pay as little as $0 if eligible for your first 2 prescriptions. when bipolar i overwhelms, vraylar helps smooth the ups and downs.   basically one in every ten people in the country, the total number of americans who have health insurance because of the affordable care act, because of obama care, clocks in at around 31 million people. today all 31 million people can breathe a little sigh of relief because the supreme court this morning rejected a case brought by republican-led states that had asked the court to kill the affordable care act all together. the court said no, they wouldn't do that, they left it in place, and in so doing, they blocked what was conservative's third effort at the supreme court to
try to kill the bill. the supreme court first upheld the constitutionality of obama care nine years ago, twa was a 5-4 ruling, then six years ago, they upheld the constitutionality against, with a 6-3 ruling, and now today, even though the court has three justices appointed by president trump, the ruling was even more lopsided, it was 7-2. it has gone from 5-4, to 6-3, to 7-2. now, the justices didn't rule on the so-called merits of the case. they just ruled that the republican officials in texas and the other republican states that were suing didn't have standing to bring the suit. but it does seem at least for now that this fight is over. republicans of course could keep trying, but i might recommend that they get a new hobby. the majority opinion in the case today was written by the sort of center left justice steven briar. his name has been in a lot of headlines recently because he has been facing impassioned
calls to step down from people who worry about a repeat of what happened in 2016 when republicans blocked president obama from filling justice scalia's seat. that the senate is retaken by the republicans. even with joe biden in the white house now nominating somebody to fill justice breyer's seat, nobody is confident that joe biden would be allowed to put his own nominee on the court. we expect a little more than a dozen other outstanding cases to be decided by the supreme court in three different days within rulings next week, but the biggest ruling of the term is now decided. this affordable care act routing today, an opinion written by the longest serving justice appointed by a democratic president, should we expect news of significant size from the court in terms of their ruling? or in terms of their makeup as a court? there's nobody i would rather talk to about all of the above that a woman who hosts the
excellent slate podcast amicus. dalia, thanks for joining us. >> that time of the year. three more days in which we will get more rulings next week, monday, wednesday and friday, but the most consequential ruling we were waiting for was this one on the affordable care act, right? >> i think this one and probably fulton, the other one that came down today, on the sort of collision between religious liberty and civil rights, in foster care in philadelphia, and that also actually was quite a narrow decision. so i think you're right, this is the one that a lot of folks were holding their breath around. >> in terms of the close of this court session, as we look toward the end of next week, and the court and issuing all of its rulings, a lot of people around the country are looking at the court and wondering if justice breyer is going to retire so he can leave on his own terms, and it gives the, not only the democratic president but the
democratic-controlled narrowly democratically controlled senate right now a chance to replace him. what do you think of all of around that? >> it is such a funny situation,rachelbecause the only person in the end who is the determinant what he is going to do is steven breyer and made clear time and time again including an interview he gave me at christmas time he doesn't think that court justices are political, and that it is a political question, and you know, he will retire when he wants to retire. but all of the sort of swirling questions about, we have mitch mcconnell announcing this week that he is not going to ever confirm a biden nominee if he gets control of the senate, none of that seems to be part of justice breyer's calculus, and i would think paradoxically, the more he is pushed, there's a bunch of ads that are coming out in the next couple of days, a
whole bunch of liberal scholars, 18 scholars signed a letter saying please, please get off the court, the more he's pushed, the more in some sense he's persuaded that this all looks really political so he better stick around. >> in terms of how the court is operating right now, we had some unusual splits in terms of the number of votes, i think people are surprised to see for example justice thomas on the side that he came down today, with the affordable care act ruling even though it was decided on these narrow standing grounds, i wonder, i think people also read into the fact that justice breyer wrote the opinion in the affordable care act and maybe that is a sign of what we should read among the justice, don't you think those are tea leaves worth reading in terms of how the vote split happened and how the consensus efforts are going led by the chief justice who is writing opinions and we treat it
sort of kremlinology but do you think it is worth watching or no? >> it is worth watching, but at the same moment, a lot of court watchers is saying john roberts, that probably means telling breyer your work is done here, move on and there were an equal amount of people saying john roberts assigned the case to breyer and he is telling him to stick around, the best is yet to come. so it's not just kremlinology, there's kind of a little bit of reading into it what we want to see. i'm not sure what to make of the fact that the chief justice assigned this to breyer, but i think it's just of a piece of this larger effort to say, why is it that everybody wants steve breyer to retire? i think the more we push him, the more he digs in.
>> i'm not pushing. i would never push. i've never pushed anything in my life, why would i push now? dahlia hosts the excellent "amicus" podcast on slate. dahlia, thank you as always, always great to have you here. >> always a treat, thank you. we'll be right back, stay with us. we'll be right back, stay with us pain? yeah. here. aspercreme with max-strength* lidocaine. works fast and lasts. keep it. you're gonna need it. kick pain in the aspercreme no, he's not in his room. ♪♪ dad, why didn't you answer your phone? your mother loved this park. ♪♪ she did.
this... is what freedom sounds like. and this. this is what freedom smells like. ahhh, enjoy 30 days of open-road freshness. febreze car.


senator joe manchin is the only democrat in the u.s. senate who's saying he won't support the big voting rights bill the democrats and biden administration are pushing. senator manchin said he won't sign on to any bill expanding voting rights or protecting voting rights unless some republicans agree to vote for it too. mitch mcconnell, the republican leader in the senate, has pledged that zero republican senators will vote for a voting rights bill no matter what. but senator manchin has effectively blamed democrats for that, implying that they're to blame for republicans all saying no to it. they're to blame for crafting their voting rights bill in such a way that no republicans felt like they could get behind it. interesting development, though,
on this. yesterday, rather than just continuing to say that, blaming his colleagues, senator manchin decided he would try to prove it. he decided to sort ofshowhis work on his theory. he wrote up a list of what he thought should go in a voting rights bill that he thought should get both democratic and republican support. it's a very different set of proposals than what democrats have put in their bill. has a bunch of stuff that republicans want and democrats really don't. but he's doing this toshowthat there's a way that he understands to write a voting bill that republicans will vote for. earlier this week, senator manchin tried to prove the point. he met with eight senators from the republican side of the aisle to pitch them on his so-called compromise voting rights plan. even with all that, even with his everything i want and nothing i don't offering, even with him personally working republican senators on the other side of the aisle to get them to vote for his plan which he crafted specifically to appeal to them, look at what the republican leader, mitch mcconnell, said today about joe
manchin's new pitch. "same rotten core." you see the headline there. "mcconnell rejects manchin's voting rights compromise." senator manchin, you are not going to get the ten republican senators you would need to vote for your voting rights compromise. mitch mcconnell just said it. he said zero republicans will vote to defend voting rights in any way. in any way, shape, or watered-down form. if the country is going to have any action, any defense on voting rights, it is going to have to be without any republicans. that is not just what critics of senator manchin have been saying, that's what senator manchin has just proven with his bipartisan experiment, his maximalist bipartisan experiment on voting rights. senator manchin says defending the right to vote is a priority for him, but he has now himself proven that there's only one path to get it, which is to change the senate rules so that voting rights can be passed by democrats alone. what next, senator? please
♪ i never needed anyone. ♪ front desk. yes, hello... i'm so... please hold. ♪ those days are done. ♪ i got you. ♪ all by yourself. ♪ go with us and find millions of flexible options. all in our app. expedia. it matters who you travel with.
don't settle for products that give you a sort of white smile. try new crest whitening emulsions expedia. for 100% whiter teeth. its highly active peroxide droplets swipe on in seconds. better. faster. 100% whiter teeth. crestwhitesmile.com overwhelmed by the ups and downs
of frequent mood swings of bipolar i? ask about vraylar. some medicines only treat the lows or highs. vraylar effectively treats depression, acute manic or mixed episodes of bipolar i in adults. full-spectrum relief for all bipolar i symptoms with just one pill, once a day. elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis have an increased risk of death or stroke. call your doctor about unusual changes in behavior or suicidal thoughts. antidepressants can increase these in children and young adults. report fever, stiff muscles, or confusion, which may mean a life-threatening reaction, or uncontrollable muscle movements, which may be permanent. side effects may not appear for several weeks. high cholesterol and weight gain, and high blood sugar, which can lead to coma or death, may occur. movement dysfunction, sleepiness, and stomach issues are common side effects. and you can pay as little as $0 if eligible for your first 2 prescriptions. when bipolar i overwhelms, vraylar helps smooth the ups and downs.
all right, that is going to do it for us tonight. thank you for bearing with us through some of our technical difficulties. i know theshowsometimes looked a little cattywampus tonight. we'll try to have it back on dry land by tomorrow. i'll see you again tomorrow to night. "way too early" with kacie hunt is up next.   it was also good news out of the supreme court because today the court upheld obama care! >> the court decided texas did not have standing to sue because nobody was forced to pay a penalty for not getting insurance n 2017 the gop congress passed a bill cutting the individual mandate penalty to 0. the republicans previous attempt to kill obamacare killed this attempt to kill obamacare. >> the affordable care act survives another republican attempt