them is that disparaging -- >> unfortunately, we're out of time but i'm glad -- i'm glad you told us that story. we're out of time sadly, but i'm glad you told us that story because they are in need of help, they're not invaders. jane, appreciate the work that you do. keep doing that work and thank you for coming on theshowtonight. >> thank you very much. >> that is "all in" for this evening. "therachelmaddowshow" starts right now. good evening,rachel. >> good evening. thank you, my friend, much appreciated.   this was the front page of the "florida times union" in jacksonville, florida. covid kills 19 people in three days at university of florida hospitals. then over on the right side, the a-1, hospitals bursting, fear staff shortage. that is jacksonville, florida, today. here's biloxi, mississippi, the "sun herald."
front page today, nearly 8,000 new virus cases part of unbridled spread on the gulf coast. here's the "opa-locka auburn news in auburn, alabama. only two icu rooms in state of alabama are unoccupied. here's the front page in rome, georgia. rooms scarce for covid-19 patients as serious covid cases rise. the influx of patients is stressing local hospitals. here on the left side of your screen is beaumont, texas. covid stretching the hospitals. more nurses needed. on the right side of your screen, that's waco, texas. virus depths and hospitalizations grow. look at this from melbourne, florida, today. this is the newspaper "florida today." very dramatic front page from them today. it says "we are on the precipice," that is their front page. look at that. our hospitals are overrun with
covid patients. again, that's melbourne, florida, today. and if you notice, i wanted toshowyou not just those articles but the whole front page and what those look like because as big as the covid crisis is, all of those sort of dire front page covid stories today, all of them shared space with the news out of afghanistan and the taliban takeover of that country and what it means after our country's 20-year-long war there. but with, you know, tonight texas' virulently anti-mask governor, himself testing positive for covid. governor greg abbott who has not only opposed mask rules but has banned them, has demagogued public health requirements with vaccines with this frankly worrying news of governor abbott testing positive with the news that he is receiving monoclonal antibody treatment. may more americans should be getting that in order to keep them from getting hospitalized.
with that shocking news tonight out of texas, alongside the devastating numbers in multiple states in the south, multiple states having their hospitals just swamped right now, we are back in a sort of split screen news world with these two very different kinds of disasters, unspooling hour by hour. disaster internationally in afghanistan, the disaster with covid at home, the u.s. government trying to cope with both of these disasters. honestly the future of both of these situations feeling quite unknowable and quite worrying, to say the least. that said, this is the top of "the washington post" website right now. taliban's de facto leader arrives in afghanistan. if you're old enough to remember the battle days of the last taliban takeover in afghanistan and the start of the u.s. war there, you might remember a lot of international attention and u.s. press for the taliban leader then who was a man named
mullah mohammed omar. he was one of the founders of the taliban when the taliban took over the afghanistan government for the first time in the 1990s, he was the leader of the taliban. he became the taliban's leader of that country when they took kabul. when the taliban was doing public executions in stadiums and terrorizing women in every corner of the country and blowing up the historic giant buddha statues. that was all under the leadership of mullah omar. and when the u.s. invaded afghanistan in 2001, he ended up leading the taliban war, the taliban insurgency against u.s. forces and all the other allied countries that forced them at least for a time out of power. mullah mohammed omar died more than ten years into that war. the taliban interestingly did not announce his death until 2015, but they said when they announced it that he had died a couple of years earlier. so when did he die?
somewhere in there. but who's the head of the taliban now? it's the guy who was one of mullah omar's partners in founding the taliban in the first place back in the '90s. it was in kandahar in southern afghanistan in the '90s that mullah omar and a mullah abduli ran an extremist, fundamentalist school in kandahar. from that as their base, they together founded the taliban in the '90s. the taliban took over kandahar first and then eventually they did take over the whole country and now 25 years later the taliban once again is taking over the government of afghanistan. but this time their leader from before, mullah omar, is dead, so it is mullah baradar instead who will be running the afghan government for the taliban this time around. at least, at least we think so. it is mullah baradar's return to afghanistan that is getting front page treatment in "the washington post" because of that expectation that he will be that country's new leader, amid all
of the consternation and worry about what taliban rule will mean there, it is expected that he'll be in charge. today we spoke with an afghan journalist who has lived his whole life in afghanistan. he's free lance for npr and other western outlets. he told us that mullah baradar returning to afghanistan is a big change for afghanistan. he said he is an esteemed leader and co-founder of the taliban. his return to afghanistan, quote, probably means the end of any talks between the taliban and afghan politicians in kabul. in other words, the implications there are that this is somebody who is recognized by everybody involved as the new guy in charge. and so anybody left over from the previous government is now, you know, not just out of a job but no longer in a position to speak on behalf of any government because with mullah baradar returning to afghanistan, everybody knows that he's going to be running the new government. at least that's the implication, that's what it looks like for
now. don't quote me when things ultimately take some radically different course we didn't anticipate. it's not like we haven't been surprised in afghanistan before from this vantage point. i will say, though, an awkward detail, i think, for us and for us in understanding what's going on there now is the fact that as mullah baradar returns to afghanistan today, as he shows up in kandahar today, birth place of the taliban, and that is recognized in afghanistan and around the world as the sign that he will be the new leader of the afghan government as the taliban takes it over, awkward background to that, particularly for us as americans, is that today marks the first time that this guy, mullah baradar, has been in afghanistan in more than a decade. where has he been all this time? well, in 2010 after the cia reportedly tracked him down in pakistan, mullah baradar was arrested in pakistan and put in
prison in pakistan, basically at the request of the u.s. government, and held there for years. until, until we had a new idea under the last president. here's julian borger writing in 2018, however, washington's attitude changed and donald trump's afghan envoy asked the pakistanis to free mullah baradar, to release him from prison so he could lead negotiations in doha, qatar, with the united states. in fact, baradar ended up signing the doha agreement with the u.s. government in doha in february, 2020. what the trump administration then hailed as a breakthrough toward peace which now appears a mere staging post toward total taliban victory. so he was in prison in pakistan for years. trump administration asked for him to be released so they could participate in talks with him. they did participate in talks
with him. and now today that same guy, mullah baradar having been sprung from prison at the request of the trump administration so he could participate in talks with trump administration figures like mike pompeo who signed a deal with him that promised the total withdrawal of u.s. forces in afghanistan, now today that guy is back in afghanistan for the first time in a decade. apparently ready to lead the new taliban government in kabul. like i said, the awkward truth for americans watching this unspool hour by hour and now day by day in afghanistan. the total number of u.s. troops back in afghanistan as of today topped 4,000, the pentagon reported, and u.s. reporters confirmed that those 4,000 troops which are focused almost entirely on the airport in kabul, they have now established control of the airport and flights are regularly arriving and leaving on the military side and semi regularly arriving and leaving on the civilian side of that airport. we just learned from the white house in the last hour that today the u.s. military says
they evacuated about 1,100 u.s. citizens, u.s. permanent residents and their families on 13 flights using c-17 and c-130 aircraft. a briefing earlier today at the pentagon, general hank taylor reported that within 24 hours, meaning by tomorrow, they expect to be flying out one c-17 military transport plane every hour on the hour. 24 hours a day. which theoretically means that instead of the 1,100 people they got out today, it means the u.s. could by tomorrow be evacuating 5,000 to 9,000 people a day from here on out. now, how people get to the airport who do want to leave and potentially who qualify to leave, that's another question. u.s. forces only control the airport itself. they can't help you with the taliban checkpoints that are set up outside it. just as a bare minimum. and there's the issue of getting permission to come to the united states or at least to be evacuated by the united states. today more than 40 u.s.
senators, democrats -- excuse me, 43 democrats and two -- excuse me, 43 democrats and three republicans, lisa murkowski, bill cassidy and jim inhoff for the republicans, they wrote to the secretary of state asking for people to be evacuated. they want a new humanitarian parole category created for afghan women leaders, women journalists, women judges, women activists, women lawyers, women police officers, women soldiers, for women who have held jobs and held positions in afghan society and government while the taliban has been held at bay who now have so much to lose and so much to fear from the taliban takeover. the letter asks homeland security and the state department to create that new humanitarian parole category for
women to qualify for visas and then they're calling on homeland security to increase processing capability at the u.s. customs service for handling those visas. right now it's hard enough for the group of mostly male afghans who worked with the u.s. military as translators and other support roles, it's hard enough for those mostly male afghans to get out under this visa program that they're trying to rapidly expand and expedite. that visa program for afghans who worked directly with u.s. forces that, lets them apply to leave directly from afghanistan and to get out if they can. it is hard enough and dire enough for those men who worked as, again, mostly almost entirely afghan men who worked with u.s. forces along with their families. but the kinds of visas that most women might qualify for from afghanistan, since they for the most part weren't working directly with the military, they were doing other kinds of work, either in afghan society and
government or with other types of u.s. affiliated and western affiliated agencies and organizations, women don't necessarily qualify in any significant numbers for those visas that are mostly targeted for people that worked with the military. they qualify for other kinds of visas that make it even more difficult. visas -- for example, these p-2 visas that you can only ask for. you can only apply for if you are applying from another country, from a third country that is neither here nor afghanistan. how do you get to a third country at this point? the senators say in their letter today, quote, particularly for women who are current targets, the path to protection and safety under the p-2 designation is not accessible. for these women to access a third country for processing is almost or completely impossible with all border crossings closed or controlled by the taliban. we spoke today with an afghan woman who was able to get out with her family just a week and a half ago. she and her immediate family,
her husband and her children are safe now in california where we spoke with her today. but she told us her mother and other people who are trying to get out of afghanistan right now, this p-2 visa that supposedly allows all these folks to qualify to get out, she told us today that it is a practical impossibility for anybody to take advantage of that, both because of the complexity of what the state department demands as part of that application but also specifically because of this requirement that in order to apply for that visa, you have to leave afghanistan. well, how do you do that? when the taliban now controls the government and the border crossings, as well as internal transportation within the country to a certain extent. president biden yesterday authorized $500 million, which is a significant amount of money, to supercharge the evacuation efforts and the handling of visa requests. the state department told us tonight that they are surging both resources and crucially more personnel, more state department personnel back into
kabul to try to get more people processed, to get more people out. they say they expect to have double the number of consular personnel on friday as they do today. today in kabul, this brave little group of women stood up in a demonstration for women's rights. this is today in kabul. they are saying work, education and political participation is every woman's right. this is near the presidential palace in kabul today. "the new york times" today also captured this photo of a female journalist working for an afghan media company that's led by women, it's an outlet called baano tv. you see the headline accompanying that photo of her at work. a woman is allowed to interview taliban fighters. in this case in the street in kabul. how long will it last? but look at this.
this is something that you should see. this is something that should burn into your retinas from these days. this is an interview that took place today, tuesday, in afghanistan live on afghan television at the studios of tolo, the independent and very, very popular tv network in afghanistan. that is a top taliban official that you see on your screen right there being interviewed live on set by a female anchor for tolo. she's doing a one-on-one, face-to-face interview with him live in studio at tolo. afghanistan has excellent female reporters and anchors and journalists, and they have been singled out by the taliban and other extremists for particularly intense threats and intimidation and even murder. news organizations the world over face all kinds of challenges, including intense threat environments for their journalists for all kinds of reasons right now. but with tolo in afghanistan,
this incredibly successful, incredibly popular and trusted network in afghanistan, they have got their -- which has been set up since 2004, since the u.s. -- since after the u.s. invaded in 2001. tolo, this incredibly important cultural force in afghanistan, like i say, very, very, very popular, they have got their female anchors and their female reporters and their female journalists out there face first as the taliban literally take over their country. it is inspiring and terrifying in equal measure. i do not envy them the bravery it takes to do their work right now. joining us now is a head of tolo tv news in afghanistan. i'm so grateful that you were able to take time to be here. thank you for joining us. >> thank you,rachel, for having me. and thank you for the very nice words you said. >> well, i am almost sure that my perspective from here looking at what's going on in afghanistan today, both in the
news business and generally, i am almost sure i am getting something wrong, it is refracted through so much distance and so many different lenses. let me give you a chance to tell me if anything i explained was wrong or if i'm putting emphasis on anything wrongly and if there's some other way we ought to be looking at things. >> no. i think the past 20 years has been an extraordinary journey. we are in this new chapter. we are trying to make sense of it. we are trying to see if this is going to work. i think the bravery of media, which is probably the only last thing, segment of what afghanistan has built in the past 20 years, is trying to see if it's going to work. colleagues are back at work
interviewing the taliban. we don't know how it's going to unfold. we don't know what the new administration in kabul, the taliban government, how will they react long term. i hope that people and other journalists, many who are the backbone of our newsroom, will be able to do their work. >> these women who you describe as the backbone of your newsroom, first of all, if they're listening tonight, i hope they're hearing that and they know that their boss believes that about them. >> i mean it. >> and i can tell. what sort of contingencies do you have to plan for? obviously there's so much uncertainty. there's been lip service paid by taliban officials thus far to allow the media at large to continue to do its work, to allowing women to participate under some sort of restrictures
that they're not yet describing. the fear among afghan journalists is palpable. how do you plan? how do you make plans for the future? >> i think we were already thinking about trying to save media and tolo in a way that we will be able to continue our work remotely or from other places that were well under way. but the speed of the transformation and development i think were unprecedented. it took many, many people by surprise. so as we speak, i think what's crucially important is that we should be able to continue our operation in kabul. and then at the same time we should also explore other opportunities. how can we be able to do it
freely without interference, without a lot of meddling, without getting dictated. i think that is -- that depends on how the relationship will unfold for the taliban. i must say there is so much lack of clarity and there is so much uncertainty still there, still in the air. >> let me ask i guess a sort of sensitive question. sensitive only because i hope it doesn't betray my own ignorance so it's sensitive to me. is there a way that the western media and that some of the nonprofit organizations and journalistic organizations who support freedom of the press worldwide and stand up for journalists worldwide, are there things that the rest of us who
believe in the free press and the rest of us in the media worldwide can do to support afghan journalism and afghan journalists, or is it dangerous to talk in those terms now because anything that's seen as a western outreach would necessarily be targeted or would potentially put even more of a target on your folks that are doing this hard work? can we help, or would it only hurt by trying to help. >> i think, yes, of course you can help. of course the international community can help. i think the media in afghanistan can be only supported if the country is helped, if the country is assisted. and that can be only done when those in charge are held accountable. now that there is going to be a new government, how that new government is shamed, how inclusive and broad based that new government is. how principled that new administration is.
if we have any hope in that, if there is anything that the international community can do to change the environment. so within that environment media can survive. otherwise if you talk about individuals, if you talk about specific things, then the only thing we talk about is evacuation. >> the head of tolo tv news in afghanistan, which itself is a remarkable story of success and creativity and resilience and adaptation under intense and bizarre circumstances, thank you so much for your work tonight. stay in touch with us, please, and please convey our best wishes to you and all your colleagues as you go through this really difficult transition. >> thanks so much,rachel. >> all right. we've got much more to get to tonight. stay with us. to get to tonight. stay with us mission control, we are go for launch. ♪♪ t-minus two minutes
and counting. ♪♪ um, she's eating the rocket. -copy that, she's eating the rocket. i assume we needed that? [chomping sound] ♪♪ lunchables! built to be eaten. she has eaten the rocket. [girl burps] over.
why choose proven quality sleep from sleep number? because a quality night's sleep is scientifically proven to help increase energy. [girl burps] the new sleep number 360 smart bed. the only bed that senses your movements and automatically adjusts to keep you both effortlessly comfortable. the sleep number 360 smart bed is on sale now.
♪♪ ok, got everything ready. got the rental. got it dropped off. going to the championship with... your tiny champion. going... going... got it. introducing xfinity rewards. our very own way of thanking you just for being with us. enjoy rewards like movie night specials.
xfinity mobile benefits. ...and exclusive experiences, like the chance to win tickets to see watch what happens live. hey! it's me. the longer you've been with us... the more rewards you can get. like sharpening your cooking skills with a top chef. join for free on the xfinity app and watch all the rewards float in. our thanks. your rewards.   i mentioned earlier in theshowthat texas republican
governor greg abbott has announced that he has tested positive for covid-19. i'm sorry to have to tell you and toshowyou this picture proving it, that his announcement of his diagnosis tonight comes just 24 hours after he hosted a jam-packed republican event in collin county, texas, last night with no social distancing and very few, if any, masks. there were 600 people in attendance at that event. governor abbott said the event was standing room only. he was very excited about that. the governor was there in person. this was not like him remotely beaming in. you see that's him circled on the right side of the screen. that's his tweet from last night. this event, 600-person standing room only no masks event was last night and today he announced he was positive for covid. among other things, spare a thought for the contact tracers working on that particular case. okay, governor, you say it was you and 600 people in the room?
do we have a list of who was in attendance? governor abbott is one of the governors who has most fervent leo posed mask rules or vaccine rules in his state. he's not just against them, he's blocking them. last month he issued an executive order banning any locality in texas from issuing any such rule. school districts in dallas divide him anyway. he decided to take this fight to the texas supreme court. but now he has covid. a spokesman says that he's isolating in the governor's mansion, has no symptoms but is receiving monoclonal antibodies. it is becoming more and more apparent that a new effort to make monoclonal antibody treatment more well known, more available and more used, that's an important new part of the u.s. response to this stage of the pandemic. i wish it was getting more attention than it is. it might now with governor abbott's decision not only to
announce his diagnosis but announce that's how he has been treated. the biden administration has been encouraging people to seek out this kind of treatment. the idea is if you find out that you have covid and you have even just mild symptoms, you should get a monoclonal antibody infusion before you get sick, before you rush to the hospital or the emergency room. they can reduce hospitalization by 80% among people who are otherwise at high risk of progressing in their covid disease to that need for intervention. we are seeing the federal government surge personnel and resources to some of the worst-off states, mostly in the south, to try to increase among other things uptake of these life-saving drugs. this antibody therapy is now a big part of the strategy to try to keep people out of the hospitals, keep people out of the icus, keep beds open as the delta variant keeps spiking and hospitals in multiple states are getting swamped. you will recall our reporting from last week about the
university of mississippi medical center opening a field hospital in a parking garage at that flagship hospital for the state of mississippi in jackson. as i mentioned last week, about half of that new facility is devoted to outpatient antibody treatment. again, for people who are not yet quite sick, who do not yet need to be in the hospital but who can come in. you can sign up in mississippi at covid mab treatment.umc.edu. you can sign up there if you've got a covid diagnosis. come and get your infusion, go back home and hopefully never occupy a hospital bed. that opened last week. half of it beds for people with covid and who are too sick to not be hospitalized. the other half of it that antibody infusion center. a big value added for that state's medical system, which has been pushed far past its
limits. that field hospital, though, in the basement at the university of mississippi medical center is still not enough in mississippi. today mississippi health officials held a press conference to announce a second field hospital being opened in a second parking garage at the university of mississippi medical center. one of the doctors at the press conference today, dr. alan jones, said last week that the state was on the brink of the state's hospital system failing. a reporter today asked him to give an update on that, to let people know if that was still the case. this is what he said. >> in the systems of care right now, there are across the state makeshift icus. icu patients in hallways, icu patients being held in e.r.s, med-surge patients on high flow oxygen and more invasive devices that are in nontraditional areas that they should be. look, in terms of the state of
the hospital system, we're standing in a garage with field hospitals. i think that speaks for itself. i mean health care in mississippi is not good right now in terms of what we can do just from -- just from the standpoint of being able to care for the patients the way that we as physicians would expect to care for a patient. these are not ideal situations. but this is not something that we've ever dealt with before. so we're making the best use of the resources that have been given to us. you know, if people want to know how they can help, go get a vaccine. i hear people all the time they want to do their research about the vaccine. i think you should do the research about what it would be like to be taken care of in a field hospital in a garage versus getting a vaccine. i mean this is -- this is serious business when we're putting patients in a place that we're not normally taking care of patients. >> health care in mississippi is not good right now.
people tell me they want to do research about the vaccine. i think you should do research about what it would be like to be taken care of in a field hospital in a garage versus getting the vaccine. this is serious business. we are putting patients in places we are not normally taking care of patients. that's the clinical director at the university of mississippi medical center, dr. alan jones, giving that update from the latest, the second parking garage covid ward hospital that's had to be set up in the state of mississippi in the space of a week. we are seeing federal resources increasingly getting tapped now for these mostly southern states of that having these big surges. again, mostly southern but not entirely. in mississippi, we do have dozens of federal health workers from the federal department of health and human services, they're a disaster team that's on site staffing one of the parking garage covid units. in recent days both the state of oregon and state of tennessee announced their national guard would deploy in hospitals in those states to try to backstop
very, very, very overstretched medical staffing in the state's hospitals. today at the pentagon briefing which for obvious reasons was mostly about afghanistan, the defense department had to announce their covid response news. they have prepared five teams, five disaster teams of medical experts that they are readying to fan out across the country to help hospitals treat patients. they said they're responding to local requests from places that need their help. again, these are pentagon, these are military, these are defense department resources. they have got five of these disaster response teams set up within the pentagon. one of those five teams specifically is deploying this week to a hospital in lafayette, louisiana. that's in response to a request from fema and the state of louisiana, but we expect those four pentagon teams will also be deploying to other sites as they get the request and as hospitals continue to be overwhelmed. and of course in texas, just tonight before we learned about the governor's own covid
diagnosis, we learned of texas' latest request to the federal government for help. they're asking for five mortuary trucks from fema. fema agreed to the request and those mortuary trucks are being deployed to san antonio as we speak. expected to arrive by the end of the week. they will then be deployed across the state of texas to handle the dead bodies that are piling up faster than texas funeral homes can handle them because of covid. cases and hospitalizations increasing rapidly all across the country. the federal government innovating and moving into new phases and new ways to help in order to try to cope. but this is all hands on deck. stay with us. deck. stay with us with relapsing forms of ms... there's a lot to deal with. not just unpredictable relapses. all these other things too. it can all add up. kesimpta is a once-monthly at-home injection... that may help you put these rms challenges in their place. kesimpta was proven superior
at reducing the rate of relapses, active lesions, and slowing disability progression vs aubagio. don't take kesimpta if you have hepatitis b, and tell your doctor if you have had it, as it could come back. kesimpta can cause serious side effects, including infections. while no cases of pml were reported in rms clinical trials, it could happen. tell your doctor if you had or plan to have vaccines, or if you are or plan to become pregnant. kesimpta may cause a decrease in some types of antibodies. the most common side effects are upper respiratory tract infection, headache, and injection reactions. ready for an at-home treatment with dramatic results? it's time to ask your doctor about kesimpta. - [narrator] every three minutes, ready for an at-home treatment with dramatic results? a child is born with a cleft condition.
in the us, children are healed at birth. but in parts of the world where the right medical care doesn't exist, children like lexi struggle to speak or eat. without surgery, some will die. those who do survive face extreme challenges. together, we can change this. operation smile works to heal children born with cleft conditions. with volunteer medical teams in more than 30 countries worldwide, we need you. there are still millions in dire need of healing. go to operationsmile.org today and become a monthly supporter. help create new smiles and new futures. but act now. children are waiting. go online to operationsmile.org to give monthly or call. (upbeat music)
like you, my hands are everything to me. but i was diagnosed with dupuytren's contracture. and it got to the point where things i took for granted got tougher to do. thought surgery was my only option. turns out i was wrong. so when a hand specialist told me about nonsurgical treatments, it was a total game changer. like you, my hands have a lot more to do. learn more at factsonhand.com today. emergency planning for kids. we can't predict when an emergency will happen. so that's why it's important to make a plan with your parents. here are a few tips to stay safe. know how to get in touch with your family. write down phone numbers for your parents, siblings and neighbors. pick a place to meet your family if you are not together and can't go home.
remind your parents to pack an emergency supply kit. making a plan might feel like homework, but it will help you and your family stay safe during an emergency.   yesterday the washington post, the wall street journal and "the new york times" did something together. together they all sounded an
alarm. the publishers issued this joint statement directed to president biden saying that they have more than 200 journalists, support staff and their families stuck in afghanistan in imminent danger. they ask for the u.s. military's help to get them out. dear president biden for the past 20 years brave afghan colleagues have worked tirelessly to help the times, the post and the journal share news and information from the region with the global public. now those colleagues and their families are trapped in kabul, their lives in peril. the statement goes on to ask the u.s. government for help in three very specific ways. first, they want help facilitating protected transportation for these folks to the airport in kabul. second, they want help getting those folks into the airport safely. and then third of course they want them on flights out of the country. kabul, of course, is now under taliban control with taliban military checkpoints and curfews. that's why the papers' publishers want u.s. military help in getting their employees
to the airport. the airport is the only part of the country under any semblance of u.s. control. that's also why these publishers specifically want help getting their staff into the airport and physically past the gates. we got a bit of good news on that front. "the washington post" announcing that they got some of their employees and families out of the country. the ones who got out made up of 13 of the more than 200 people these three publishing groups are trying to evacuate. "the wall street journal" tells us while some of their journalists have been able to leave, the situation on the ground remains, quote, extremely perilous. both "the journal" continues to request immediate assistance in facilitating safe transport for the rest of their staff into the airport where access continues to be limited by taliban checkpoints. "the new york times" declined to comment. the state department is not providing any specifics on this group of journalists either. but in following this last night and today, i'll tell you the first person who came to mind
for me when i heard about these journalists now stuck in taliban-controlled afghanistan was our friend, the pulitzer prize-winning reporter david rode. he was a reporter when he and two afghan colleagues were kidnapped by the taliban in afghanistan while on a reporting trip in 2008. they were held hostage together for over seven months before they made an escape that is almost too daring and too unlikely to be believed. they got out. david survived in part because his afghan colleagues saved his life and got him out. if anybody can help us understand the situation these journalists and staff and their families finds themselves in tonight, it is david, who has been engaged in his own effort to try to get his former colleagues and their families out to safety right now. joining us now is david rode,
executive editor at thenewyorker.com. >> thanks for having me on. >> so you wrote today about your personal efforts to try to get your colleague tarir's family out of afghanistan. can you just give an update on what you've tried to do and what the situation is now? >> so he is in washington, he's an american citizen. he came here right after i saved my life. i want to repeat that again, he saved my life. he helped me escape from taliban captivity. his wife and most of his children remain in kabul. for three months we've been trying to get the american government to grant his request that his children come with him and live in the united states. that's his right as an american citizen. and nearly, you know, four months have passed and these visas weren't approved. there's a staggering backlog of visas. his wife and children are now
trapped in kabul. the taliban are patrolling outside of their house. the family is terrified that some neighbor will say to the taliban, hey, that's the home of the afghan who helped an american journalist escape from taliban captivity. after afghan whose bravery humiliated the taliban. and i have been trying for three months. this is sort of strange for me. i'm not used to advocating contacting white house officials, state department officials begging them for help in this case, and this is just one case. the american government response has just been staggeringly slow and disorganized. it's humbling for me. just lastly, we call -- i would visit him in washington and we'll call his wife and children. you know, they expect me to save their lives because he saved mine. and i'm going to keep trying and maybe something will happen, but it's been a really disappointing experience. >> david, from what you have
experienced trying to get tahir's family help, from what you have learned through that process, which is unusual for you, this advocacy and calling u.s. government officials not just for information but to try to get them to do something, does the kind of escalation and additional resources that have reportedly been put toward this problem sound like the right kind of stuff to speed it up? what we've been told is they're going to have one c-17 taking off an hour as of tomorrow here, today in afghanistan. they're going to surge state department personnel to handle the processing of visas. they're going to surge them specifically into kabul. they have freed up $500 million as of yesterday by the president's order to try to sort of supercharge the entire process. are those the kind of things that you think might open these clogged arteries any further, any faster?
is this the right escalation? >> they might. i'll say that another person i wrote about in the story is a reporter for ten years for "the new york times." he was at the airport on that very first day. there's supposed to be i don't know an exact number but the president said 5,000 troops there. he saw about 500 americans who were surrounded by tens of thousands of afghans. they were scared, it seems, the americans of being overwhelmed by this crowd. so these resources have to come in. and we're just talking about extending this effort for a week or two. what's amazing is behind the scenes is there's this massive effort. you mentioned the three news organizations. there's women's rights advocates that have chartered planes to come in and try to bring the best and brightest female students out of kabul that are attending universities there. there's all these charters that are trying to get in to bring these afghans out.
private organizations trying to save afghans who have helped us all for 20 years, and they can't get in because of the lack of organization. and again, the lack of planning by this administration. so we can leave afghanistan. it doesn't have to be this chaotic. we have a moral duty to get people like tahir and waheed out and particularly the young women you were talking about earlier in the broadcast. >> i was struck today, david, listening to the pentagon briefing with appropriately very hard questions being thrown at the pentagon spokesman and the general who they put up at the podium today. i was struck by the claim from the pentagon spokesman that having the 82nd airborne go in to secure the airfield, establish order, to establish not only control over things like air traffic control but to secure the perimeter and to widen the perimeter if that's necessary to truly have safety and freedom of movement around that space, that that's something that the 82nd airborne does. that's the kind of -- that's the
kind of targeted mission that nobody has any cynicism about the u.s. military's ability to pull off, despite what we've just seen from this 20-year war and all of its complications. i wonder if the sort of unified, very specific focus of the u.s. military here might at least be able to bring the kind of order in coming days that would allow for the private efforts you were just describing to come to fruition, to get charter planes, whether they're going to doha or whether they're going to dubai or wherever they're flying to, to get those sort of private -- get clearance essentially for those private efforts? >> according to the afghans i spoke to today, the american soldiers aren't doing that. they felt bad for the american soldiers. they didn't have barbed wire. they didn't have any kind of equipment to control the crowds. you know, the only things the american soldiers had that they saw were rifles and machine guns. there's a tiny little part of the airport that was controlled. i think it's expanded a bit
today. but the vast majority of the airport is not controlled. tahir, my friend, got an email saying that his family shouldshowup at the main gate. thousands of afghans were there. there was messaging between journalists that afghans instructions of the u.s. embassy to go to that gate because the taliban were there. there was no security and i think as the days go by and we have to report hard here, the amount of just poor planning and very poor management carried on by the biden white house is going to be appalling, and i just keep hearing deep frustration from the news organizations simply trying to get planes in to bring their people out. >> david rohde, somebody with personal experience that gives him not only unique connection with those men you're trying to help but unique perspective on what needs to be done here. david, thank you for your time and good luck to you and the family and the others you're trying to help. >> these journalists are so
brave. you saw it earlier. thank you for having them on, too. >> indeed. much more news ahead. stay with us. indeed. much more news ahead stay with us without my medication, my small tremors would be extreme. i was diagnosed with parkinson's. i had to retire from law enforcement. it was devastating. one of my medications is three thousand dollars per month. prescription drugs do not work if you cannot afford them. aarp is fighting for americans like larry, and we won't stop. that's why we're calling on congress to let medicare negotiate lower prescription drug prices.
(naj) at fisher investments, our clients know we have their backs. (other money manager) how do your clients know that? (naj) because as a fiduciary, it's our responsibility to always put clients first. (other money manager) so you do it because you have to? (naj) no, we do it because it's the right thing to do. we help clients enjoy a comfortable retirement. (other money manager) sounds like a big responsibility. (naj) one that we don't take lightly. it's why our fees are structured so we do better when our clients do better. fisher investments is clearly different.
it's the biggest sale of the year, on the new sleep number 360 smart bed. it's the most comfortable, dually-adjustable, foot-warming, temperature-balancing proven quality night sleep we've ever made. save 50% on the new sleep number 360 limited edition smart bed. plus, 0% interest for 24 months. only for a limited time.

something to watch for in tomorrow's news, tonight, president biden is returning to the white house from camp david but we've learned in the last few hours that tomorrow he's expected to deliver remarks to the country on covid specifically he's expected to make an announcement to the country about recommended booster shots. additional vaccine shots. you probably saw the news last week when the cdc recommended additional vaccine shots for people who have immune -- who are immune compromised in various ways. but now with the delta variant raging throughout the country and overwhelming hospitals with too many people, too sick with covid in multiple southern states, the biden administration tomorrow is expected to announce the recommendation that there should be additional vaccine shots, not just for immune
compromised people but for everyone. now, i don't have very much detail to give you because there isn't much detail available yet at this point. this is a fairly controversial thing the president will announce in part because the data on which his covid advisors made this decision is data that has not yet been shared with the public, at least not in an easily digestible way. there is confusion about the potential announcement, lots of discussion, wide ranging discussion what the president is going to announce in terms of a recommendation tomorrow but we will hear from him directly about it tomorrow so watch this space. tomorrow so watch this space. coverage customizer tool? sorry? well, since you asked. it finds discounts and policy recommendations, so you only pay for what you need. limu, you're an animal! who's got the bird legs now?
only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ that delicious omelet was microwaved? get outta here. everybody's a skeptic. paper money. it's the future! get outta here. i'm leaving with my gold. it's not crazy. help me, mother. it's an omelet. just crack an egg. >> tech: every customer has their own safelite story. this couple was on a camping trip... ...when their windshield got a chip. they drove to safelite for a same-day repair. and with their insurance, it was no cost to them. >> woman: really? >> tech: that's service you can trust. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ i am robert strickler. i've been involved in communications in the media for 45 years. i've been taking prevagen on a regular basis
for at least eight years. for me, the greatest benefit over the years has been that prevagen seems to help me recall things and also think more clearly. and i enthusiastically recommend prevagen. it has helped me an awful lot. prevagen. healthier brain. better life. introducing aleve x. it's fast, powerful long-lasting relief with a revolutionary, rollerball design. because with the right pain reliever... life opens up. aleve it, and see what's possible. ♪ [truck horn blares] (vo) the subaru forester.
dog tested. dog approved.
if you feel like the news is heavier than heavy right now, that is because you are a smart, aware person and you are correct. just tell you, a remarkable snapshot of that today at the pentagon briefing today they have to transition from the huge emergency evacuation operations in afghanistan to the deployment of disaster medical teams from the defense department to u.s. hospitals overwhelmed by covid starting with one in louisiana today. then they moved onto the long list of coast guard and navy and other military resources they are deploying right now to help with the rescue and recovery operations in haiti after the earthquake there including multiple u.s. military field hospitals that are going to haiti right now as we speak. the reason the news feels heavy tonight is because it is. we pray for better days