rachelbecause it's her vacation and, i have some good news on that, and her return, which will share with you later tonight. it involves actually some of you, or at least one of, you on msnbc viewer who happens to be a wonderful grandma. this is real, and will get into it later after some of the news. now, as for some of the good news that leads the actual news, the white house announced that 50% of americans are fully vaccinated against covid, a key milestone, thanks to the quickening rate of vaccinations. up 44% over the past two weeks.
these improving signs come, not soon enough for consider that last year, around this time, there were about 57,000 new covid cases per day. that's one way to count it. that is a clear number and that was obviously a lie. we live through this together, 2020 was a year that became synonymous with tough times. so how are we doing now? tonight, are we approaching that same rate i showed, you are we hire? a lot? well, the news is no good there. a daily case rate is now almost double. that's about 100,000 cases spurred by this contagious delta variant. the other big differences, this year, right now we basically have a cure. if only more people would take it. so people in positions of power are now, as it's become so clear what's the holdup is for some, they're taking more
dramatic action. jerseys democratic governor is the first in the nation to mandate the return -- that children returning to school this far are to wear masks. and he spoke about the contrast to other approaches to other parts of the country. >> anyone telling you that we can safely reopen our schools without requiring everyone inside to wear a mask is quite simply lying to you. because we can't. i want as much -- believe me. i want as much as anyone in our state to circuit smiles as they start their school years. but i don't to see them getting sick needlessly, or schools have to shut down again and go remote because of an outbreak. and especially of a dangerous variant that is putting kids and it's crosshairs. upset this requirement, that is exactly where will end up. and that is not speculation. if you look at what's already happening elsewhere across the
country in schools that have already opened and are mostly in the southern part of the country, without a mask requirement, it's not a matter of if we would have a school closing outbreak, but when. >> the governor's referring to these strange experiment americas been undergoing since the vaccine became basically available everywhere. some places have -- still deploying the range of safety measures. other places are sitting out the evidence based path to recovery. now he's throwing shade at places like south carolina, texas, and florida, where republican governors are talking up supposed freedom measures of freedom priority over safety measures, like pushing vaccines or masks. and that's because fares possible, there is a version of a fact based dialogue of trade-offs when it comes to government policies. we are all adults, we can deal with this together, we can discuss this together in a democracy. but let's also be real, that is
not what we are seeing in many of these red states where the posturing and the right-wing virtue signaling are leading to policies and rules and methods that just sounds ridiculous when you read them out loud. like texas stating, that under their rules, there will be no requirement to even notify parents when there is a covid outbreak in school. well, remove the word covid and just ask yourself if any parent of any ideology would ever want a new school policy to state, when there's an outbreak of something that can impact your kids, chicken pox, drugs, whatever, you don't have to find out about it as a parent. and that has nothing to do with liberty. that's just forced ignorance that affects your ability to make informed decisions for your family. now for all the talk of freedom, or local construe, other red
states are overriding the control and choices of their school districts where in some cases they have decided that they wanted to follow the safety measures. so take florida, which is breaking all records for its most covid cases ever this week, they are scheduled to return to school tuesday as the governor is at war against masks. -- and still backing a mask rule for a certain amount of time like the opening weeks of school. now this is not a drill. and this is just not some theoretical exercise. the school leaders in alachua, california, are sharing their hardship. the realities they are going through, to custodians who work in this county died. other employees are quarantining right now because that is what it leads to. one of them states -- my are dulls are sick or are in
quarantine that are adults -- that don't have adults present to provide education. just as simple as. that and that's where we begin tonight on a very important story, joining us tonight is carlee simon, superintendent of alachua county schools. i know it's a tough time in many ways, so thanks for making time for us tonight. >> thank you for having me, i appreciate the time. >> tell us what you are doing and what you see as the best thing for the people involved in your schooling. for the people>> so we are focug sure that we have workforce available to provide the education that we know our students need. we are very excited about having their students back in school on tuesday, and because of what we're seeing in our covid numbers with our staff, we needed to make some decisions. so it started actually on monday when we started to see the spike. and we still at that point in half teachers on campus. and just to give you some context, the last three weeks
are covid cases are as much as the last five months combined. and for this reason, we decided that we needed to make sure that we mandated masks for all of our employees, our vendors and any visitors on our campus. and we were also incentivizing the vaccinations because, although, the mask will help prevention, really the goal is to get vaccinated. so we had this incentive for individuals who have been vaccinated, as well as any individual who is interested in being vaccinated, on top of, that we also -- because we understand that our staff that have taken the time to be vaccinated, not only are they helping their own personal safety and the safety of their family, but they're also helping our community, our education community. and one of the things we are offering is that we provide covid leave for vaccinated staff if they have a breakthrough of the delta variant. and the goal is to think them for being a contributing member
of keeping their workforce functioning so we can provide the education to our students. on tuesday, our board listen for quite a few hours to medical professionals from our community. one of the benefits of the alachua county schools, the university of florida is in our backyard. and we have medical professionals that are world renowned experts on pediatrics as well as immunology and epidemiology. and they've been giving us guidance and consulting with us. and after the presentations of the board, the board was compelled to vote unanimously for zero to put up a mask mandate. we're hoping to revisit this in two weeks, to mandate this for the first two weeks of school, and what we're gonna do is we're gonna look at the data and determine from the data, consult with our professionals again, and decide if we need to extend this. we are concerned about the -- we'd like to finish that up. >> right.
and that really makes sense, i think anyone listening can hear the way you're putting it, the republican governor desantis really clashing with you and says, this is, in his, view your overriding the parents of the system that you serve. take a listen. >> parents choice in florida. and government can override the parents. so we believe the parents are the ones that have the choice and we obviously have the executive order to that effect. eyelash county cannot override -- can override the parents. that's very clear from the parents bills that i signed. and i think that's the right thing to do anyways. >> i have another guest standing by, so with about 30 seconds, i wanted to give you the benefit of your response. >> so we do believe in choices well and that is one of the benefits of the rulemaking process that occurred today with a governor and the department of health, and the department of education. and said that they provided an additional layer of choice by
allowing family members to utilize a hope scholarship voucher fun, for them to choose if there's another school or school district that would provide them the type of environment that they would like. on top of that, for our own families, we do have a medical exemption where they can have a medical provider determine if the child can be exempt from having a mask. and then of course we have choice options that have existed for quite some time in the state of florida. so i think that we are offering choice, but we are also making sure that we follow our constitutional responsibilities and that is to provide a safe, high quality education to all students. >> superintendent simon, with a big job right in the middle of all of this, thank you for your time. we turn immediately now to the nation's second largest city in los angeles which is facing a spike in covid cases. it's the biggest in the pandemic, eight one in eight
county residents in l.a. are affected. the courts are introducing a new motion -- sporting events. and we turn to someone else is on the front lines. there's a lot of discussion and debate, but these are people who are actually having to figure this stuff out. mary martinez as president of the city council. who's introducing this motion. thank you for being here tonight, can you introduce this to us? >> the intention is to require eligible adults to get at least one dose of vaccine if they want to enter into indoor places such as restaurants, bars, entertainment centers, malls, movie theaters, moving forward. the city council will consider this motion next week for vote. >> and that makes a lot of sense as much as other places i've done it. again, helping under-people understand how this works. why do you say to those who say
-- who look at this and say it's designed to push people, who say, well are you trying to make those places safer are you just trying to withhold things and places from people so they will get vaccinated. and if so, is that a good public health idea? >> quite frankly, everyone's exhausted. we've been -- we are tired of having to explain to folks the importance of vaccination. hospital workers are tired, moms are exhausted of staying home, some of them have lost their jobs, turned away career opportunities. kids are about to return to school in about a week and a half. and if you're going to protect our kids, we have to mandate vaccines. if you want to go ahead and not get vaccinated, no one is forcing you to do that. but if you want to go and have fun and go into a restaurant, or bar, you're gonna have to get vaccinated. because those of us who have stayed home and done everything humanly possible to protect ourselves and each other are quite frankly just exhausted.
we don't want to go back to the days of shutting down restaurants and businesses or issuing stay-at-home orders because certain people don't want to be a dear white to what science and data is telling. as cases are rising, we have to do everything we can to protect each other. but most importantly our children who are getting ready to go back to school. we cannot afford another year of the missing an entire school year because adults don't want to listen to data and science and what our medical experts are saying. yeah, and you say -- i think people can hear you on that. we've covered places that issued the governor earlier. basically respectfully criticizing places in the south where they have this idea of arguing against the science, talk about liberty, talking about choice, but really going against what we've learned about how the vaccine and other measures work. california, of course, is diverse like everywhere else. but i think every county is known to be less far conservative than some of these southern areas.
i'm curious what you think is also contributing to some of the problems out there, misinformation, things spreading on the internet, if that's part of the problem? >> i think it's certainly misinformation. i think we're doing everything we can in los angeles -- we have three vaccines that work. we have vaccination events throughout the city of los angeles, in my district, we actually dornoch on people's homes and take the vaccine with us to incentivize people to get the shot right there and then. so i think misinformation has a lot to do with it, and this is why i think we need to continue to push that information that works,. give people the information they need, give them the information that is gonna save their lives in the lives of their children. >> >> nury martinez, again, two guests are in the middle of our broadcast -- thank you for spending the time with us tonight. i appreciate. it >> thank you >> very much. coming up, the republican assault of utterances continuing in many different
ways. where is the meaningful action and what are the legal standards that you need to know as there are some real signs of life? that's next. that's next. by over 200 indoor and outdoor allergens. try claritin cool mint chewabls for powerful allergy relief plus a cooling sensation. live claritin clear. >> tech: every customer has their own safelite story. this couple loves camping adventures and their suv is always there with them. so when their windshield got a chip, they wanted it fixed fast. they drove to safelite autoglass for a guaranteed, same-day, in-shop repair. we repaired the chip before it could crack. and with their insurance, it was no cost to them. >> woman: really? >> tech: that's service you can trust, when you need it most. ♪ pop rock music ♪ >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪

♪all by yourself.♪ you look a little lost. i can't find my hotel. oh. oh! ♪♪ this is not normal. no. ♪♪ so? ♪♪ right? go with us and find millions of flexible options, all in our app. expedia. it matters who you travel with. - [narrator] this is dr. harold katz. he used to worry about how to fix the world's oral health problems. - i think i've got it. - [narrator] then he invented therabreath formulas. - you want fresh breath? i'll give you a fresh breath. - [narrator] for fresh breath, healthy gums, dry mouth, and healthy smiles. - whoa, that's fresh. - [narrator] now, the world's mouths have never been healthier. (sighs contentedly) - works for 24 hours, i guarantee it.
therabreath, it's a better mouthwash. - [narrator] available at walmart, target and other fine stores. and there you have it - wireless on the fastest, most reliable network. wow! available at walmart, big deal! we get unlimited for just $30 bucks. i get that too and mine has 5g included. impressive. impressive is saving four hundred bucks a year. four bucks? that's tough to beat. relax people, my wireless is crushing it. okay, that's because you all have xfinity mobile. it's wireless so good, it keeps one upping itself. >> it must 56 years ago today,
the president london johnson signed the voting rights act. a landmark civil rights bill and in a movement that bought and marched and even blood for the right to vote. part of a legal break from the law was strengthening national protections for voting. that's a response the hard learned lessons of states would suppress the right to vote with no fear of consequences when the feds took a hands off and reactive approach. you could see martin luther king there was elleby jay. today i'll be jay was honoured with a new statue in houston, the vice president tracing the rise and fall of parts of this law. which still provide some guardrails but with significantly weekend by chief justice roberts in a conservative block on the supreme court. >> the supreme court has stripped away protections
contained within the voting rights act. and states have responded with a slew of anti voter legislation. americans deserve options to be able to cast their ballot, and that is why president joe biden and i are calling on congress to pass the for the people act, and the john lewis voting rights advancement act. ghtslarge part of this boils don to how bad you think voter suppression is. the original operated on the premise it's so bad it must be stopped. in advance. unlike some other problems or even crimes, there was a larger national imperative to protect this right to vote. not just punished voter suppression after the fact. the law had something the required states with a history of racist voting tactics to get clearance in advance for many voting reforms. that's the part the supreme court gutted. calling it antiquated, out of date, and basically unnecessary
in today's world.rachelhas been reporting on attorney general garland's various tests at the age, and challenges he faces. this is surely one of them. and he is out swinging the bat for restoring the full law and its approach writing voting rights act preclearance provision were still operative, many republican voter suppression laws would have been allowed in the first place. that's that key preclearance issue i mentioned. now, if it feels like people are always playing kind of a legal catch up with these restrictions all over the place, that's not an accident. that is because the supreme court swooped in, and made it so the only way to advocate voting rights is to be mostly reactive. congress is trying to get on the case, but it can still feel like whack-a-mole if no 144 page report out today argues this is an inflection point in protecting our democracy. and says after reviewing thousands of pages of evidence we, and a lot of testimony from experts, congressional action is needed. senate democrats suggest a vote
is coming on a slimmed down version of the for the people act, written by senator merkley who stood with texas democrats as they marked the final day of their special session, the ones who broke quorum over a month ago stalling that restrictive voter bill and they've been in washington pushing on the issue. >> they say everything is bigger in texas. but what is bigger than defending our national right to vote and our freedom to vote? they say don't mess with texas. i say don't mess with these texan legislators who are defending the bite the right to vote in the home state. i am so inspired by the voices texans have brought here to washington d.c.. that voice has continued to reverberate. my colleagues and i have been meeting to lay out that bill that can get majority support in the senate. >> i'm joined now by that senator, jeff merkley, of
oregon. thank you for being here tonight. >> it's very good to be with you on the 56th anniversary. who can believe we are still fighting this battle more than half a century later? >> >> yeah, i hear you. we think about this historical strand. what it means to you to be out with officials and lock lawmakers we showed you, today and what are you fighting for? >> you know, it's so helpful to have people on the frontline who are experienced in direct impact of republican state house and senate and governors who are trying to steal their right to vote. it gets harder for them to vote by mail, to vote early, buses for the church to go to the polls to vote, make it harder to vote on election day. this targeted strategy is wet existed before 1965. and it took incredible efforts to enforce the 65 law before we finally got to a point and said we really have secured the right of every american to
fully participate in our democracy and the future of our country. we have gone so far back over the last couple, years especially this last year as the state legislators start to, not the texas democrats, but the state republicans back home start to reshape the laws to block the ballot box. they are coming to washington and their bold walkout to defend the constitution of the united states, it helped focus the conversation extremely helpful and i must say they are real freedom fighters. >> when you look at this suppression today, how much of it do you think is fundamentally racist, which echoes this whole march since the sixties and how much of it is barren occult partisanship which may or may not be illegal as we live through a time where democracy itself has been challenged so much? >> former president trump saw in georgia, that one people have access to ballot boxes,
community turnouts and elected democrats of senators from georgia. his response was we are going to make it harder for black georgian's to vote and black americans all over the country. these efforts are just targeting black americans, but other minority communities, the native americans and college students. it's a very targeted effect. they know if they can force people to vote on election day, that there is time tested strategies to make turnout low by reducing the number of increasing voting places, changing their location, putting no parking, understaffed them so people have to wait for five or six hours in line, putting out false information about the date and location. they know these things. they are trying to cheat americans out of the right to vote. so much of it is targeting black americans. there is a fundamentally racist element to it. is>> and we've also been keeping an eye on this looming vote we are told would be in the congress here.
i want to read it bad slipping down that john those act, check shimmer reportedly telling you and your caucus you have these voting rights within days, and they would trim the ethics provisions from the original bill, scale back the mandate through automatic voter registration, exercise a public campaign financing system for senators, it's a separate issue, and it tends to change the composition of the fcc. it's a mouthful of what's cut out and by implication, there is plenty left in the bill. what is this strategy mean about having a slimmed down version and what's your response to having some skeptics who are you watching tonight and say, well, if you are still waiting on republicans and it's going to be that kind of thing, how are you ever going to get any of this out without reforming the filibuster? >> there are three things. one is to stop billionaires from buying elections, while hiding from the american public. the second goal is to stop
gerrymandering. there is intense conversation among republicans right now about gerrymandering on steroids. they know that in just four states, they can gerrymander another six to 13 seats that would be at 26 boat swing in the house. they already feel like they have about a 15 seat advantage that is a 30 seat swing as it is. the margin with his eight seats should be 38 if there were people there for representation. this is important. and defending the ballot. that means early voting, vote by mail, making sure that people have full access on election day as well. these things will all be well protected in the bill. you think of the first hurdle we have to get a bill that 50 members agree, to come from very different systems of voting. lay out this national set of standards, and the end to dark money, and the end to gerrymandering. lay that out and agree on it,
and that's what we are working on right now and i think we've narrowed it down from 100 issues to about two or three, and we are working hard to resolve the final pieces. then, when we are away from washington, there's going to be an intense effort by some of our colleagues to recruit republicans to join us because they should join. as they swore an oath to the constitution to defend the rights of americans to vote. and if we come back and we do not have their support, then we have to find the path for 50 of us to get this done, unfortunately, without them. and i am very confident we will find a way. >> interesting. senator merkley, i want to thank you very much and coming, up embracing the big lie and its consequences. for a run except maybe trump. could that change? stay with us. stay with us yardwork... teamwork... long walks....
that's how you du more, with dupixent, which helps prevent asthma attacks. dupixent is not for sudden breathing problems. it's an add-on-treatment for specific types of moderate-to-severe asthma that can improve lung function for better breathing in as little as two weeks. and can reduce, or even eliminate, oral steroids. and here's something important. dupixent can cause serious allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis. get help right away if you have rash, shortness of breath, chest pain, tingling or numbness in your limbs. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection, and don't change or stop your asthma treatments, including steroids, without talking to your doctor. are you ready to du more with less asthma? just ask your asthma specialist about dupixent.

i was injured in a car crash. i had no idea how much my case was worth. i called the barnes firm. donald trump lost the when a truck hit my son, i had so many questions about his case. i called the barnes firm. it was the best call i could've made. your case is often worth more than insuran
call the barnes firm to find out i could've made. what your case could be worth. we will help get you the best result possible. ♪ the barnes firm, injury attorneys ♪ call one eight hundred,est resul eight million ♪ presidential election so clearly, across several states, that there wasn't even a single case that made it all the way to the supreme course regarding his loss.
there were some other lawsuits as well. i spend a whole bunch of time doing the reporting on them back in those sundry days of november, december 2020. but most of them were worse than losing cases. the sum where so far beneath the basic legal requirements to get into court that they were just tossed, or wears, some appear to be infractions themselves. because while lawyers can make many arguments for a client, they cannot lie in court, that is perjury. that can get you into trouble. just ask the rudy giuliani. so accountability throughout our court system still takes time and always has. and now we are seeing some of that process, like a suppose a class action suit that was filed in colorado on behalf of all the registered voters that claimed trump actually won the 2020 election. that is not a claim a lawyer can submit to a court without evidence. now, the lawyers behind that very case are facing
consequences. with a federal judges hitting them with a major penalty. they must now pay the lawyer fees for every one, individuals and companies, that they sued. and if anybody knows how high lawyer fees can get, well it's lawyers. to quote someone else familiar with the law, sean carter, chains as cool a cop but more important is lawyer fees. that is how it is now. that is how it will always be. we so true. and that is how it before hoague-rivette people that are paying the price for these election lies. and giuliani by the way pain with more than fees, he is losing his livelihood, he's already banned now from practicing law because his license was suspended over specifically the election lies. he is also separately under criminal investigation. another judges under punishment, cindy powell, and then, would the -- of over 550 people for the
insurrection itself. and it is the first hearing of the committee investigating showed there is also a gap here because there is this conduct that was done for someone. as one police office with -- officer who put, it there was a hit man who requested that all the speed. and i'm talking about donald trump. now the an opinion piece we mix the argument that he should be investigated for this by the doj. we were sitting presidents could not be indicted but that no longer shields trump. we are to maintain our democracy and respect for the rule of law, efforts to overturn a fair election simply cannot win be allowed. it must be investigated. we are turning now to joyce vance wait, joyce, thanks for being here. >> good to be with you ari. we >> tell us about the
evidence in the case to make here. with >> the argument i think is a simple one, and it's intuitive. it balances the need the doj has to restore its bona fide as an agency that's above the political frame. that doesn't do anything for political reasons and to balance that very important priority against sustaining the rule of law. and we conclude in this absolutely remarkable situation where you have every appearance that a sitting president was involved in an insurrection, that the justice department must fully investigate the facts in the circumstances around that. we don't know, it could be that there is investigation going on and that doj, as it so often does, has managed to do that in secret. but the point that we make is that this investigation must be robust, it must look at a wide variety of possible federal crimes, and we if there are
charges to be brought, they should be -- >> i think it's an important piece that you're right. politics here are funny and they're meant to have no role in the doj, and although, maybe counterintuitive, there's some evidence that some biden folks view this as potentially a political distraction, or worse for them, but of course that should matter anymore then but trump's prerogatives -- political prerogative prerogatives and goes. where i think you and your colleagues got great lanes to determine if there was this kind of felonious conduct, it should be probed. in a late development tonight that was breaking just as we were getting ready to come on the air, you have new details about the lanes that were pursued to cook the books, to override state results, to try to get some government support or laundering for some really wacky conspiracy theories, and this comes against the backdrop of people testifying.
so one outlet has a story here about the former deputy attorney general don who. and the acting attorney general do you in the coming days. donahue, late december, also spoke with the senate judiciary committee, rosen is the one on the way. and this comes amid's basically a lot of detail about a trump loyalist inside the doj basically trying to get intelligence briefings and other support for a really wacky, unfounded theory. and perhaps, even become attorney general himself. what do you think about all of these new stories? we should be paying attention to this ari. this is deeply distressing. this shows that there is a trump loyalist inside of the justice department who had not only fully bought into the big lie but, he was advocating it in advancing it in a very real way. because if jeff clark had
gotten his way, then acting attorney general rosen would've sent a letter to the georgia legislature directing them to take over the election in georgia and to compel an outcome for trump, despite the absence of any evidence of fraud. and it's fortunate frankly that the acting attorney general pushed back, declined to play games with clark who, was someone who had been an assistant attorney general in the environment and natural resources division. he had become the acting head of the civil division. he was so far out of his lane asking for an intelligence briefing on ongoing criminal matters that it's difficult to see how that even happened. but it speaks to how much dysfunction there was and how the trump monkeys were really running theshowat that point. >> yeah. joyce, thank you so much. really appreciated, as always. when we come back, the big developments here regarding the allegations against andrew cuomo, we have that story and much more.
stay with us. stay with us ♪ ♪ ♪ hey google, turn up the heat. ♪ ♪ ♪ new york governor andrew cuomo



facing new levels of legal trouble today after a woman who asserted that the governor groped her in the executive mansion has now filed a criminal complaint against him. that's a new development. the unidentified individual has identified as assistant one, is one of 11 women who made allegations of sexual harassment against the governor who denies her specific allegations. he allegedly first reported in march -- then cuomo's office referred that complaint to the sheriff's office saying it had an obligation report any such allegation to the police. prosecutors in albany county have already opened criminal probes. prosecutors and other counties -- that suggest five different offices having some kind of review, we can't say exactly the former formal description of each investigation. andrew cuomo also faces a
separate but related process within the new york state legislature. that is the impeachment. several lawmakers have introduced the measure to -- win new york state pension. that measure can be viewed as a way to encourage governor cuomo to resign and avoid what would be financial section if he lost the impeachment trial. pause for cuomo's resignation identified in the past week. the delegation -- longtime allies and we -- coming together and saying he should step down based on the strength of the evidence in the report. governor cuomo denies all the allegations and is standing firm. today, his attorneys held a unusual press conference on zoom where in addition to the responses to the rim port, they spoke about these new allegations, specifically against the governor in the court criminal context. cuomo, basically, has to deal
with wet is now apparently an open criminal investigation. and the governor's lawyers say we should expect actually hear more from the governors soon. >> what we've identified was -- allowed the governor ran his finger down her spine and said, hey. you in another instance he touched her stomach, her belly button, over to the portion of her hip which she carries her gun. to any of you have any response to those allegations? >> the governor will address that allegation that himself. so i will let him speak for himself. -- >> when will he do that? >> i can't give you a timeline but i know he wants to do it soon. we >> are joined now by dale alonso he's also -- he has experiences as a federal prosecutor and a lot of insight into exactly how these investigations work. we are here now at the end of the week, it is quite a set of
developments for the governor. what do you see as the most serious legal exposure that he has right now? >> well he's gotta of multi front war, ari. he's got the possibility of a serious civil suits. he has the possibility of being removed from office. he has the possibility of criminal charge. obviously criminal charges are always serious, this is not the kind of criminal charge that results in incarceration, but that doesn't mean that it's not serious. these theoretically at least, misdemeanors, which are still crimes, which are still, you, know not nothing. they're not the most serious crimes around. so i would say probably his most focused on staying in office. the assembly is gonna meet on monday at the start of the process and they've given him a week to respond to some of the allegations. and i expect that in the next week or, so the assembly will be deciding on the cause of impeachment. >> when people hear that
multiple da's in new york are looking at this, help us understand how that's the case if under geographic jurisdiction, typically wouldn't be all that many different places. >> it's only because the reported self specifies or the da's have learned that the various acts that could theoretically be criminal take place in multiple counties. we have those we, go west chester, new york, and albany. it doesn't mean that they're all serious, it doesn't mean that they're all result in criminal charges. but it means that those da's are fulfilling the responsibility to look at the charges of the attorney general has suggested from her report. >> speak on, that because the attorney general james conducted a thorough and quick report. here it had bad evidence against governor cuomo in the sense that multiple individuals with different experiences in different places were reporting and alleging this conduct. so in the eyes of the
investigators and the careful review they did went to the profit of value, the likely truth, they thought, of these allegations. and that's what came through in the report's findings. having said all that, attorney general james also said publicly that this was all largely civil in nature. so help us understand why having said that we're hearing about multiple criminal, at least criminal reviews, this week? >> the reason is because the acts, even though she may five made findings that violated civil laws, there are some acts that are talked about, like the wrapping of the rare end or the grabbing of the breast under the blouse, which of course would constitute a crime. but prosecutors don't prosecute by report. so i think attorney general james appropriately declined to say this is a crime and instead left it to the people who have jurisdiction over criminal activity. you know your viewers may not know that the new york stated
attorney general has very limited criminal jurisdiction. so she could not have taken those facts and ran with them. so it's up to the local da's of the counties where geographically happened. you said it yourself, jurist geographical jurisdiction, she determined criminality. so it was appropriate for the attorney general not to say, oh and by the way i find this violates the laws against forcible touching or sexual abuse in the third degree, which of the two are technical crime. she did not do. that she's leaving it to the da's in that jurisdiction. it's appropriate for them to look at that, i think we need to let them look at it independently. not just by reading the report. they need to interview the witnesses, they need to see with the cooperation is for themselves, and make the decision in the interest of justice. and finally, given your expertise, how do you assess the way the governor cuomo has denied and rebutted these allegations? >> he has the right to do that and there is a point that his lawyers made today about not having access to the evidence.
i think that's not a bad idea to release the transcripts of the witness interviews so that the governor can use them in his rebuttal to the assembly. and terms of, you know, i think some of the rebuttal is a bit thin. today certainly didn't address all the allegations. it address some of it. but i think that those lawyers a little bit -- fighting with one hand tied behind their back because they don't have all the evidence. so i think we have to wait and see and get the governor a chance. well >> understood and appreciate the legal analysis here you bring here. a whole range of investigations. thank you for your time tonight. we will be right back and we -- thank you. and we will have answers to the burning question that many of you have asked aboutrachel. in a fun. way so stay with us. th us. here we go. ♪ don't rock the boat, baby rock the boat ♪ see disney's jungle cruise.
it's time to rock the boat, america. age is just a number. and mine's unlisted. try boost® high protein with 20 grams of protein for muscle health. versus 16 grams in ensure high protein. boost® high protein also has key nutrients for immune support. boost® high protein. as someone who resembles someone else... i appreciate that liberty mutual boost® high protein also has key nutrients knows everyone's unique. that's why they customize your car insurance, so you only pay for what you need. [ nautical horn blows ] i mean just because you look like someone else doesn't mean you eat off the floor, or yell at the vacuum, or need flea medication. oh, yeah. that's the spot. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty, liberty, liberty, liberty ♪
>> tech: every customer has their own safelite story. this couple loves camping adventures and their suv is always there with them. so when their windshield got a chip, they wanted it fixed fast.
they drove to safelite autoglass for a guaranteed, same-day, in-shop repair. we repaired the chip before it could crack. and with their insurance, it was no cost to them. >> woman: really? >> tech: that's service you can trust, when you need it most. ♪ pop rock music ♪ >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ so many people are overweight now, and asking themselves, "why can't i lose weight?" for most, the reason is insulin resistance, and they don't even know they have it. conventional starvation diets don't address insulin resistance. that's why they don't work. now there's release from golo. it naturally helps reverse insulin resistance, stops sugar cravings, and releases stubborn fat all while controlling stress and emotional eating. at last, a diet pill that actually works. go to golo.com to get yours. team usa is ready for the olympic games... ...and so are mike and eddie!showme the olympics. they easily catch every single event with the award-winning xfinity voice remote.showme bmx racing!showme swimming. track and field. shot put.
skateboarding. water polo. climbing! discus. surfing. dressage. dressage? it's horse dancing. magnificent. with the best of the olympics, and everything else you love, it's a way better way to watch! cheer on team usa with xfinity x1. say "showme the olympics in 4k" president george w. bush in so you can watch in stunning 4k ultra hd. october 2002 signed a permission slip from congress to send american troops into
iraq. formally it's called the authorization for use of military force. now his dad, george h. w. bush, also sent troops to the gulf and 91. both of those authorize a shuns are actually still on the books. the balance of power in our system of government is supposed to kick in here. the power of war which the president can use isn't supposed to just be there forever. now, almost two decades after the start of the iraq, or it finally looks like congress is ready to reel in some of those authorizations because the committee voted to repeal both of them this. week the journal wall street journal reporting that ten senators signed on -- what it looks like we'll actually see an effective repeal of this war power, the first in 50 years. and that's an update we wanted to give you before the weeks out. and now we returned the long
awaited news about racial. so if you asked the big question including a lovely lady named pat who has gained a following online just being herself. her granddaughter shares these videos of her on tiktok showing her doing everything from enjoying chocolate covered marshmallows to showing how she keeps kleenex handy in her while locker. well now she has a new video that features pat wondering whenrachelmaddowwill be back. and barring over what's the key question is here. watch this. >> i mean that's her private business where she is, she can -- you can't ask that. four it's just when will she be back! that's a question. when will she be back. okay okay. >> here is a picture of her --rachelmeadow's page. there is a picture of her with a fish. >> probably, she's fishing
somewhere, yes. what i could've told you that. she's fishing. but i want to know when she is going to be back. i don't care where she is, i don't want to know where she is. that's her business where she is on her vacation. my business -- not my business. so there. >> that now you can see that she is fishing. she just wants to know when will she be back. well i'm here to report live on msnbc, for pat or anyone else wondering about the answer,rachelwill be back monday. and withrachelback monday, i hope you tune in right here at 9 pm eastern to welcome her. if you happen to be looking for me, i'll be back at 6 pm eastern on the beat. and here, next week, on the beat, we're gonna have an exclusive interview with one of
the two people you see right here in this photo. now this is a picture from inside the vice president's office, you can probably tell. and i'm not telling you that we have the vice president on the beat, but an influential voice on many issues including black lives matter. we're gonna welcome the artist little baby. he -- we are gonna have him on the beat to discuss those issues, his meeting with the vice president harris, and what's going on with black lives matter in atlanta and around the nation. that's gonna be on next. week if you want to find me and ask me any questions like pat or talk about tiktok or anything else, you can try me on social media or the best place to always race reach me is i melber.com. and we share highlights of the beat, law, music, anything you want. that's the end of this hour, but keep it right here for the last word with jonathan >> kaye pardon lawrence o'donnell. thank you very much. the biden plan is working.
that's how president biden responded today to the new jobs report. the us added 943,000 jobs last month and the unemployment rate? that drop to 5.4%. the lowest unemployment rate since the start of the pandemic. >> well, our economy is far from complete. while we will have ups and downs along the way we will continue to battle through the surge of covid. what is indisputable now is this, the biden plan is working. the biden plan produces results, and the biden plan is moving the country forward. we've got a lot of hard work left to be done. both to beat the delta variant and to continue our advance of economic recovery. >> as soon as tomorrow, one of the key pillars of president biden's economic agenda a one trillion dollar bipartisan infrastructure bill, could get a final vote in the senate. according to analysis