what we need to be doing. i saw the stats that the new mta subway has 11,000 shots in arms. go to where people are. thank you for making time tonight. >> sure. >> and that is all in for this evening, therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. good evening,rachel. >> good evening, chris, thank you, my friend. much, much, much appreciated. we are continuing to follow this upsetting tragic news out of california. a gunman has opened fire and killed eight people, shooting started at 6:30 a.m. the train storage and maintenance facility for the public transit system, he struck at a particularly busy time. it was the shift change when people who worked the over cannight shift were handing off to the day shift, sheriff
reported that the? shooter and officers responding the did not exchange gunfire. but the sheriff said that the suspect appears to have shot himself when officers confronted him. again, he died along with eight our victims. seven victims died at the scene and an eighth died at the hospital. there's a person still in critical condition after being shot in the incident. we do not know the identities of the victims. authorities were still in the process of contacting victim's families hours after today's shooting happened. bomb sniffing dogs indicated that they detected the presence of explosives. that is another bizarre and terrible element to this latest mass shooting. the possibility of explosive devices being investigated and also, apparently a linked fire at about the same is time the shooting started a fire was reported at the shooter's home, which is about ten miles away from where the shootings
happened. authorities are investigating whether the gunman set his house on fire before setting out on the shooting spree and if so, why, and how dangerous is the scene now. they say multiple guns produced in the shooting and we have no further information about the guns themselves. the shooter has been identifity. he is an eight-year employee. most if not all of the victims are believed to be his fellow vta employees. president biden over the white house, lowered the flag to half-staff, and he noted that he has done so for the fifth time, and he has had to do it five times in four months. just in the last couple of minutes before getting on on the air. the city of san jose announced there would be a vigil for the victims of today's shooting tomorrow in san jose for the community to gather. so, that's what we know at this hour, as i mention, it's a
complex story with multiple moving elements and we will keep you updated as we know more. if we learn more over the course of the hour.   so, as we continue to watch that, you should know that there's a whole bunch of stuff that is coming down the pike right now in terms of news. all stuff to watch. first of all, i'm not sure why this has not received more attention. one of the things that we are expecting tomorrow is are vote, finally on president biden's final nominee to run the post office. the post office was never really the source of all that much news and drama in previous administrations. in normal times you don't have to think about the post office that. it was only during the trump administration that americans had rally to the post office. a new post master general was appointed with the express purpose of monkey wrenching the operations of the post office.
he instituted mail slow downs and backlogs and the destruction of multi-million dollars irreplaceable sorting machines. he just made change after change after change that made the mail system worse. made life hell for postal workers and made all of our own mail less reliable. effecting us all personally and effecting businesses from coast-to-coast. the trump administration era post master general, lewis dejoy is still in the job today. still right now, proposing further changes to the post office to further slow down and privatize and screw up mail delivery t reason that the trump i hate the post office guy, lewis dejoy is still in the job now, even though we now have president biden is because the president cannot directly remove a post master jnl. it has to be done by the board of governors of the on postal service. the postal board of governors. well, that's what is going to happen tomorrow. tomorrow, president biden's final nominee to that board of
governors is expected to be confirmed by the senate at long last. and then, it will be up to that board. that board as of tomorrow will have a majority of nominees, excuse me, a majority of members who are ooth democrats or others, picked by president biden. that board will then be able to decide whether lewis dejoy is going to stay dm his job as post master general. so we can keep slashing the preverbial tires to mail trucks, only the postal service board of governors can do it. the vote to put biden's last nominee for the board should happen tomorrow in the united states senate and i know, maybe proceedura lch l -- one of the
weirdest policy hang overs of the trump years.   also memories of things to watch for. we are now expecting the texas republicans will pass the anti-voting rights bill tomorrow. this is something that they have been working on for weeks now but it's a opaque process and it will not be clear, i think, until they are voting what is in the bill they are voting on. so we are on high alert for that. we are expecting that it would potentially more draconian than the georgia republican anti-re voting bill last month. as best we can tell procederally it's worth being aware of how fast it will go. there's been a lot of news of what texas may be doing. and what might be in the bill. whatever they ultimately decide, it will go fast, again, we think tomorrow. we think it is slated to pass both the texas house and the texas senate tomorrow on the
same day. whereupon, it will go immediately to texas governor greg abbott who will probably sign it immediately like tomorrow afternoon or tomorrow night. that is going to move fast. it's worth watching. heads up about that.   heads up also, that even though tomorrow is a thursday, and that's not typically a, the day of the week in which you get supreme court news. because of the memorial day holiday this weekend, the supreme court is going to announce new decisions tomorrow morning. now, there's not that many cases they have not ruled on yet for this year's session. one of the cases they have not ruled on yet is one out of texas that is an aattempt to get rid of obama care, root and branch to kill the whole affordable care act in its entirety. if the supreme court agrees to do that, which is what the case is seeking, that would have the affect of throwing 10s of millions americans off of their health insurance instantly.
now, we don't know how they are going to rule on the affordable care act case. we also don't know what cases they will rule on tomorrow. we don't note if that's one of the ones they will issue the ruling in. there's a few days left in which they will announce rulings for this year's cases. it's a thursday, a weird time to look for supreme court cases. but expect that tomorrow morning. eyes open on that one too. a lot to have your head up about right now. there's a lot coming down the pike, and as we follow all these developing stories and as we honestly anticipate what looks like might be a bananas news day tomorrow. i also tonight just want to take a moment here for something a little bit different. something that i want you to listen to. and i'm not promoting this exactly, but i do want you to know it exists. it's kind of an anthem. it's from today's news. it's an anthem, it's like an ode, a salute. to a man who is an inventor sort of.
a treasure hunter sort of, he is a man who knows that the 2020 president aal election was absolutely littered with fake ballots and fraud. ♪ ♪ you fight for free and fair election-s invented scan the ballots with kinematic artifact detection. >> you love to read allowed travel and explore. you're a fearless braveheart patriot who's opened doors. you're our courage, you're our voice, jovan we thank you for what you are fighting for. you're our warrior ♪♪ >> is your heart soaring. let's give credit where credit
is due. if that was impressive, you fight for free and fair elections, invented scan the ballots with kinematic artifact detection. it works if you do it as a double dutch chant. doing it as a heart felt folk song. you have never heard anybody row -- rhyme it with something else and bring a tear to your eye. big ups to the writing skills of the songwriter here. but you heard what it's about. you heard the part where jovan, we thank you for what you are fighting for. you are our warrior? >> jovan tells you this is about the song, it's a celebration of this man. not rudy giuliani on the right. no, it's about, song is about
the man on the left. a man who calls himself jovan pulitzer, that showed up on his sound cloud page or it did until recently when slate.com report d on the existence this week. linking to how he has become somewhat of a folk hero among those who see the 2020 election as having been stolen from donald trump. again, the anthem to him was up until slate.com wrote about it, we luck ly captured it before they took it down, now it's down. that's what you need news professionals for. the reason he has become the folk hero, in the stop the steal community, is mr. pulitzer
claims to be the inventor of the kinematic technology. which he could tell you but he would have to kill you after. don't worry, he has credentials to back up his claim. this was his invention before that. a handheld bar code scanner in a plastic case that looked like a house cat. he justin vented the shape like a cat part of it. never theless, that has been maimed the 25 worst tech products ever. the number one worst invention of the 2000s. his post experience is that he churns out dozens of books about treasure hunting.
lost treasurers that you can find. even if he does have his own anthem where they call him aer warrior, you might think that a guy with the treasure hunter books and cat resume is not a person who has business being around american ballots and they are in high demand from republicans across the country. as we have discussed he and his secret supposed technology are somehow part of arizona republicans audit in that state that it's their attempt to uncount the presidential election in arizona. the republican official who has worked for the spokes person confirmed that jovan pulitzer's miracle fraud detector widget, if it exists is being used somehow in arizona. and the mirror noted with
rerestraint, it's unclear whether mr. pulitzer's technology has been used on ballots or if anyone confirmed it works whompt cares if it works and who would be allowed to test it anyway? dude said trump won and his machine will say so, therefore we want that machine. so, we have with talked about him before in his supposed magic technology when it comes to arizona. the important thing here is really it's not just arizona anymore. hundreds of trump supporters recently descend odd on a town meeting in windham, new hampshire, demanding that the town hire that same guy. j so van pulitzer to do an audit of their election too. and that is one that president trump has hyped and hyped saying an audit in windham, new hampshire reveal the mysterious secret fraud in all of the counties in new hampshire and that's how he will turn it around and the election be. they want jovan pulitzer to be
doing the audit too. the trump folks are clam orring for him, and will not accept anyone else. and now another third party audit in fulton county, georgia, the trump election fraud conspiracy promoters that have been given access by a court to hundreds of thousands of ballots in the atlanta area, they too, are bringing jovan pull it zer aboard. they put out a presses release saying they are uniting with jovan pulitzer and his expert team, jovan is the only expert that understands all details of what is needed in a forensic ballot inspection. his patented technology is unmatched in the country. we can find the truth about georgia ballot integrity no matter what that truth may be. because of the cat treasurer hunter anthem guy. his kinematic, artifact
detection that you cannot see, it will find the truth out about what happened in the 2020 election. i wonderer what that truth will be that they will find. again, nobody knows what his so-called technology is, all of the trump folks know is that when he says is he is used it. he says his machine declares that trump won. so, what else do you need to know? clearly that's right machine. the arizona audit, is of course be being run overall by cyber ninjas. this is their website. it's affirm owned bay trump supporting qanon promoter who is hired by arizona republicans to run the recount, despite having any experience. that said is, the cyber ninja ceo said his firm experienced working quote, with some of the largest names in the financial services space. he claimed to done projects. he claims they have done projects for big name financial companies like citi bank and
j.p. morgan chase and the ap reporting that if you ask citi bank and j.p. morgan chase, those institutions will tell you they have no record of hiring cyber ninjas. but it's not just jovan pulitzer and his mysterious machine and cyber ninjas, alone. cyber ninjas picked a subcontractor that they hired to do the physical handling of the ballots. that is supposed to make everyone feel betterer that they don't have any election experience. the subcontractor did claim to are have experience in performing audits in new mexico coand pennsylvania. when the arizona mirror confirmed that, they found nobody in new mexico coheard of the company. and while they arer claiming to have conducted some sort of operation in pennsylvania, it turned out the way they got that gig, they were hired by the rudy giuliani circus. giuliani and friends were
pushing the narrative that the pennsylvania election was stolen from donald trump, they are the ones who picked wake tsi to come in to look at a pennsylvania county to see if their theories were correct.   that's their previous elections related experience. and how did it go for them in the pennsylvania county? the main results of their work in that pennsylvania county, appears that the county has to buy all new voting machines because of wake tsi messing with them that means the machine's integrity is compromised. now we have learned that wake tsi, the firm that has been in charge of the actual physical hand counting of the ballots in the arizona audit, wake tsi just quit in arizona. and no explanation for why they are suddenly gone. the republican official who is the spokesperson for the third party audit there there said, said quote, by way of explanation, they were done.
they didn't want to come back. that's the explanation. oh, okay. okay. but don't worry, another firm is stepping in to take over their work. another firm that appears to have no election or auditing experience. we called this nirm -- we called this firm strat-tech. they will be handling real ballots from real voters. they would not talk to us directly but they told us all media requests about their work are being handled by this guy. this guy who, how many errors there giving votes to joe biden. seriously is anyone keeping a database of these mistakes. #stop the steal. and here is a article from on
dominion times about flipping et votes. i don't know. he said quote, if true this really opens a can of worms for michigan. it's pretty shocking that the media, including detroit papers refuse to cover any of this. refuse to cover any of these. that is not that hard to understand. here he is sharing an article titled yes, democrats are trying to steal the election in michigan, wisconsin, and pennsylvania. he said that this comes as no surprise to him, since he has lived in corrupt democratic states. so, again, if you are thinking about whether we should have trust in the audit of the results, that's the gentleman we are told will be speaking on behalf of the new firm that was just brought in to run the actual hand counting of real ballots in arizona when the last firm up and quit without explanation in the middle of the so-called audit. we spent a long time trying to get in touch with him, we think we have made contact with him, we will send questions and let you know if we hear anything
back. but really, arizona is, is just the beginning. i mean, the associated press this week published a sort of bracing over view of how it's becoming a nationwide phenomenon, and the pro fusion of audits alarms election experts that notes that it has set a troubling new precedent of third party partisan review of the ballots long after the elections are over. one saying this is bad enough to see it happen once, but seeing it elsewhere in the country is quote, dangerous for democracy. a former arizona official who used to oversee real election wills, in a healthy democracy, you have an auditing process and legal resource and when that period is over, all the candidates who won take over and you move on. she added that the people calming for these audits clearly want only one result and will not be satisfied.
this is just going to play out in purpetuity, right. if we are going to be a country now where if you don't like the election result you and other people you know can just claim the right to get the ballots and get the voting machines. and take them for yourself and do whatever you want to them and you say what happened in the election. that's how we are going to do this now? it's not just arizona. state election wills officials are to doing their best in lots of places who now to try to prevent a perpetual cycle of random audits by groups that want things to turn out in a different way. letters have been sent to two michigan counties that are trying to launch a third party audit warning the county that the audits could be illegal . the michigan secretary of state saying they have no authority to order any such awed skmit the secretary of state instructing election clerks in the countys that they must not give
unaccredited outside parties access to real voting machineses and real ballots. meanwhile the voting machine company, dominion has written to every county in michigan, that uses their machines, telling them if they do turn over these machines to unaccredited outside auditors that will disqualify the machines from future use in any election and the countys will be on the hook for the cost of new machines. which again is exactly what happened already in the pennsylvania county, where wake tsi did their rudy giuliani invited audit of the voting machines. that county has to pay for all new voting machines and it's exactly what is happening in arizona where the secretary of state has told maricopa county that they have to buy all new voting machines. thousands of machines have to be decommissioned and replaced with new ones. because the machines from 2020 are no longer secure. they have been tampered with by these unaccredited cyber ninjas
who are going to he will us how it is that they figured out that trump won using the cat shaped thing or whatever. i mean, these third party a audits and the messes they are leaving behind are now go ing to be a nationwide problem, and they are. a problem that is just going keep replicating itself over and over again in different places across the country. the thing that we are going to have to start talking about as a country is whether some sort of nationwide solution is required. to stop this mess. i mean, believe me, in right wing meade yampt in trump circles right now, right, these stupid, corrupting fake audits of what happened in the 2020 election are the most important thing happening in the country, the most important thing happening in the world. the fact that there's a big weird one happening in arizona, i think has some gain in the normal media and for the rest of us. if you look at the way they are talking about this stuff in
trump world, they really going to do them all over the country where pro tump republicans can convince someone to give them access to voting machines and real ballots. they are doing it all over as if elections are theirs now. and ballots are theirs now. it's not a public government function, it's for the trump people to take over on their own terms and they will tell us what happened. individual groups of republicans that object to what is going on. they have been trying to stop this stuff as it's been taking off but they are not, it's not working. so far the individual efforts by individual politicians, officials and small groups of people to try to stop it in the stuff where this stuff took hold, the efforts to stop this thing are not working. as this starts to spread across the country. so, here's the thing. if what we are doing with real
ballots in real election machines and real voting machines and if it is illegal. and it looks like it is. there's a federal law that said random third parties cannot have access to ballot ones can and machines after an election. if it's illegal everywhere. who is going to stop it? and when? we reported last night on the swearing in of the brand new chief of the civil rights division. kristin clark and we are waiting to see what they work on now they have a senate confirmed leader. honestly one of the areas where is the civil rights division could get involved, part of their remint in d.o.j. is in election law and one of the things they could get in at the federal level to set a national expectation national standard here to draw bright lines about what can't be done is around these slap dash privately run bonkers corrupting third party
audits of the last election. it was the acting head of the civil rights division. a woman that was holding the spot in an acting capacity until kristin clark was sworn in last night who after all did write a letter earlier this month to arizona senate republicans telling them that the third party audit they are running there may violate federal law, they have among other things handed over voting machines and millions voters real ballot ones to these unaccredited public companies. they are to stay in the custody of auto election officials for per a specific amount of time. arizona republicans appear to have broken federal law by handing the stuff over to cyber ninjas and wake tsi and the cat guy and ally the rest of them. that was a letter from the acting head of the civil rights division. that letter was a start. but, since then, what is happening in arizona is starting to happen in lots of other places in the country now too.
and if what they did in arizona, and what they want to do in all the other states is illegal, then who is going to act on that? and stop federal law from being violated in this way. are we really going to leave this just up to state election-s officials playing whacka-mole to try to stop the next stop the steal scam here and stop the next one here and there, it's not working. is there a federal response that should happen here? to address the issue nationwide? that sets standards and creates clear rules and clarifies the existing clear rules around this stuff. is there a federal response that can be mounted here to block the privately run, privately funded third party audits from happening in the first places? if not, if there's no national response to it, i'm telling you this thing is a run away train. watch this space.
[ footsteps] [ suspenseful music ] ♪♪ hey, you wanna get out of here? ah ha. we've got you. during expedia travel week, save 20% or more on thousands of hotels. just book between june 8th and 12th to plan your escape with expedia. expedia. it matters who you travel with.
with relapsing forms of ms... there's a lot to deal with. not just unpredictable relapses. all these other things too. it can all add up. kesimpta is a once-monthly at-home injection... that may help you put these rms challenges in their place. kesimpta was proven superior at reducing the rate of relapses, active lesions, and slowing disability progression vs aubagio. don't take kesimpta if you have hepatitis b, and tell your doctor if you have had it, as it could come back. kesimpta can cause serious side effects, including infections. while no cases of pml were reported in rms clinical trials, it could happen. tell your doctor if you had or plan to have vaccines, or if you are or plan to become pregnant. kesimpta may cause a decrease in some types of antibodies. the most common side effects are upper respiratory tract infection, headache, and injection reactions.
ready for an at-home treatment with dramatic results? it's time to ask your doctor about kesimpta. feel the clarity of non-drowsy claritin. ready for an at-home treatment with dramatic results? and 24-hour relief from symptoms caused by over 200 indoor and outdoor allergens. try claritin cool mint chewabls for powerful allergy relief plus a cooling sensation. live claritin clear. which shows will you be getting into tonight? how 'bout all of them. netflix. 'cause xfinity gets you really into your shows. when one burns for someone who does not feel the same. daphne, let's switch. from live tv to sports on the go. felix at the finish! you can even watch your dvr from anywhere. okay, that's just showing off. you get all of this on x1. so go on, get really into your shows. you need a breath mint. xfinity. it's a way better way to watch.

a bunch of united states senators started to get news alerts on their phones of a mass shooting in san jose, california, news started to trickle in around 10:00 a.m. eastern time during the senate hearing and it led to a twisted split screen moment in the news. the reason all the senators were gathered this morning as they started to get news alert on their phone about the mass shooting, is that they were there to try to confirm president biden's nominee to lead the bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms the branch of the justices department that is supposed to contend with guns and gun policy. president biden's nominee to run atf is a man who has a 20 year history at atf, and he has been out spoken about gun reform laws. it's why he was picked for the job. it's interesting. widen it here, and you can see a
bigger problem. atf has not had a permanent senate confirmed leader for more than six years because republicans do not believe the federal government should have an agency that contends with guns and gun policy in the kuchblt they don't want a permanent is not confirmed person running the agency. over the past 15 years atf has had a nominee running the agency for 2 of the 15 years. republicans will not let anyone in to run the agency. but now with the democratic majority in the senate, it appears that part of the government that helps to set gun policy will finally have a permanent confirmed leader again, etch if democrats have to vote for him only among themselves. he will perhaps be the first director of the atf who had to consider the mass shooting, that happened in the hearing to get the atf job. mr. chipman it's not lost on me
that as we are having this discussion with you or several members with about guns that there's another mass shooting with fatalaties near san jose. we have worked hard, there are republicans like senator toomey who have worked on the background check issue. and tried to get that done, we know the vast majority of americans support rational gun you violence legislation joining us is senate -- >> thanks,rachel. >> so, obviously you were not preparing for this hearing today, knowing that there would be a mass shooting at the moment you were working to confirm the next person in charge of dealing with gun policies in this country. i wonder if that is going to affect the way that you and your colleagues have approached not just the hearing but the
confirmation and the gun policy question today. >> you know, i literally could not believe that some of my colleagues, senator cruz, who proceeded me, are railing against this nominee, mr. chipman, who by the way, 25 years of experience with the agency. investigated the world trade center bombing, investigating the oklahoma city bombing. completely kwaufd for this job. and because he holds views that the vast majority of americans hold, like 90% of them support universal background checks so he gets criticized for these common sense views. while we have an ongoing mass shooting where we know there are already eight deaths. one after the other, one after the other, one after the other. i guess the irony was lost on them, but i don't think it should be lost on the american people that we need a competent
person and i worked on the last confirmation from todd jones, he was from minnesota and i held the vote open for hours and i was able to convince republicans on support him. i'm not sure that it will happen this time. we need to have somebody in place running that agency. >> i was struck in your remarks today and i wanted to play the clib of you talking to the nominee, that way today, because you singled out one of your republican colleagues, senator pat thyme, you said there are republicans like senate toomey who worked on the background check issue and tried to get it done. seems to me that you are signaling there, potentially that at least the background checks issue may not be over. that there might potential be some room to get reform on that narrow slice of gun policy? >> yes, senator chris murphy who has ban long-time advocate to take on gun violence, along with
senator bloomenthal, he has been working with senator pat thyme, and there's broad support in the past, and i do not rule it out at all. we have been through four years of donald trump, i sat across from him in parkland when nine times he said that he wanted to see universal background checks. i wrote it down and keep looking back at it and the next day he met with the nra and he folded. we cannot keep folding. you cannot keep folding when you have things happen what we saw in san jose, and parkland and sandy hook. it keeps going on. >> senator is, let me ask you about another matter that is pressing the vote auto a commission to investigate the attack on the capitol on january 6th. we have been following the timing on that. it looks like there could be a vote in the senate potentially tomorrow, do you have a sense of how that will go and if it's
something that republicans will support it? >> we know seven of them say that they are for this. and you know that there were 35 republicans in the house that voted for this sensible idea that we have to look at the systemic causes of what happened, so we can do a major, major investigation. i don't know what they are going to do. i don't know what excuse, you can have for not wanting to have this investigation. it is true that i and senator blount along with gary peters and portman, over with homeland security, we have combined forces we are coming out with a report that i look forward to talking with you with, around june 7th week. that is focused on the immediate, what needs to happen now with the capitol police leadership will, what needs to happen now with law changes. so this never happens again. but that is not a sub is statute for this 9/11 type commission that we must have. >> senator, democrat of
minnesota, thank you for being here, i know you have voting ahead, it's a busy night for you.   >> thank you, it's lightning outside,rachel. time to get something done. thanks. >> i hear you. i hear you. all right, thank you. it's hard to not see all of it as an omen when you are at work and that kind of thing is happening. we have more to get to the tonight, including very, very, very unexpected big good news from a business sector that never ever provides good news. that story is next. stay with us.
in business, it's never just another day. it's the big sale, or the big presentation. the day where everything goes right. or the one where nothing does. with comcast business you get the network that can deliver gig speeds to the most businesses and advanced cybersecurity to protect every device on it— all backed by a dedicated team, 24/7. every day in business is a big day. we'll keep you ready for what's next. comcast business powering possibilities.

i booked our hotel on kayak. it's flexible if we need to cancel. cancel. i haven't left the house in a year. nothing will stop me from vacation. no canceling. flexible cancellation. kayak. search one and done.
i wrote a book that came out a year and a half ago. i think that is how long ago. it's a book called blow-out, it's about the power of the oil and gas industry. how that one industry is so powerful and has such specific incentives in the way they do business, that they have a incredible record of corrupting every place they operate. the book is basically a warning
about politics, about how democracies all over the world including here at home get under mined by the one industry. they are not just a normal business sector, they are, i think, a unparalleled thing, where companies in that industry regularly shape the governments of whole countries to fit the company's needs. so, basically i wrote it to say, countries should watch out for that, it's no good. well, now, the other side of that coin though, is that we should be ready for governments to change. for whole types of government to potentially fail if and when the oil and gas industry that made them possible changes. if and when the gas and oil industry stops being what it is. if the mammoth world shifting companies that can wrap whole country cans around their little finger. if those companies lose a step or on disappear, or get forced to change in to a whole different kind of enterprise, that really will change the
world. it will change governments around the world. it's clear that for the oil and gas industry, and all it has done, it in fact is about to get basically unwired it's because there's a problem with climate. and as stupid as our domestic politics have been about climate, the climate thing is a huge thing that needs a fix and the world is figuring it out and the oil and gas companies have to get out of the way or change themselves in to a entirely new thing. we have known it was inevitable. it was going to have to happen. we didn't know exactly what it would look like when it arrived or when it would happen or how gradual or sudden it would be. we have been able to see in
theory that this was coming and then today, all of a sudden, boom. it all just happened. all at once. remarkable day. and it's still seen as sort of a business news, business pages piece of news. it's more than that. first of all, this morning at the hague in the netherlands a dutch ruling, a court order was made to require the massive oil company, royal dutch shell, it will require that company to can cut the emissions by 45% by the end of this decade. that is their emissions, their suppliers emissions, customers emissions that means royal dutch shell will meade to stop being a burn positive ill fuels company very, very quickly. court order. then, right after that, boom, it happens to chevron, this is today. a shareholder's meeting and overwhelming vote by ch evron
shareholders requiring it to cut its emissions too. and then, boom, another one. all in the same day. a huge one. exxon, the flag ship american oil and gas giant who has led the way in funding and promoting climate denial conspiracy theories, the shareholders dumped some of the board of directors and installed new ones who are going to make exxon do a u-turn on climate specifically with the plans to keep expanding drilling operations. that is not going to happen anymore, exxon just got a bunch of new directors that it does not want that will make the company change course and it happened in the span of a few hours. shell, chevron and exxon, watching the twitter feed of bill mcclibbon was like watching the guy seeing the double rainbow. he said, wow, wow, wow. and explain what is the shell
news is and links to it and said, this could be game changing and a couple of hours again. he said whoa! yet more news on this watershed day. it's about the exxon, and a couple of hours of that, he said a crushing day for big oil. the chevron news, exxon news, and shell news, and he said thanks to all who fight, you push long enough and the dominos tumble. any of the things happening would be huge news about the richest most destructive industry on earth. but all three of the huge things happening in hours of each other, all in one day, it's almost impossible to believe. you push and you push, and stuff eventually falls. ♪ na na na na
♪ na na na na... ♪ hey hey hey. ♪ goodbye. ♪ na na na na... ♪ hey hey hey. ♪ goodbye. ♪ na na na na ♪ na na na na... the world's first six-function multipro tailgate. available on the gmc sierra. tonight i'll be eating a calzone from doughballs in aurora. (doorbell) rock on. tonight i'll be eating lobster thermidor au gratin. really? sh-yeah, and monkeys might fly out of my butt. make it two calzones! everyone remembers the moment they heard... “you have cancer.” how their world stopped and when they found a way to face it. for some, this is where their keytruda story begins. keytruda - a breakthrough immunotherapy that may treat certain cancers.
one of those cancers is advanced nonsquamous, non-small cell lung cancer where keytruda is approved to be used with certain chemotherapies as your first treatment if you do not have an abnormal “egfr” or “alk” gene. keytruda helps your immune system fight cancer but can also cause your immune system to attack healthy parts of your body. this can happen during or after treatment and may be severe and lead to death. see your doctor right away if you have cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, diarrhea, severe stomach pain or tenderness, severe nausea or vomiting, headache, light sensitivity, eye problems, irregular heartbeat, extreme tiredness, constipation, dizziness or fainting, changes in appetite, thirst, or urine, confusion or memory problems, muscle pain or weakness, fever, rash, itching, or flushing. these are not all the possible side effects. tell your doctor about all your medical conditions, including immune system problems, or if you've had an organ transplant, had or plan to have a stem cell transplant, or have had radiation to your chest area or a nervous system condition. today, keytruda is fda-approved to treat 16 types of advanced cancer. and is being studied in hundreds of clinical trials exploring ways to treat even more types of cancer.
it's tru. keytruda from merck. see the different types of cancer keytruda is approved to treat at keytruda.com, and ask your doctor if keytruda can be part of your story. you booked a spacious vrbo summer home, with a pool big enough for the most epic cannon balls. a patio that fits all the laughter, and a grill that awaits family from near and afar. but the thing they'll remember forever?
the first of many vacations with their nephew. the time for getting back together is now. find it on vrbo.   here's the headline in the wall street journal, oil giants are dealt pager defeats on climate change as pressures
intensify. joining now, bill mckibben, founding expert of climate foundation 350.org, thank you so much for your time. >> great pleasure to be with you on a day for once we have good news to talk about. >> let's stalk about it. exxon and shell and chevron all hit today with different judgments and votes that will force them all to change force when it comes to climate. all of the news together feels like a very big piece of news but how confident are you that this will make a difference? >> well, i don't think any of them by themselves will make a huge difference right away. with their size a decade of battering by activists is finally taking a real toll. only a week ago the international energy agencies said time has come for fossil fuel to stop expanding. this is not radical outfit. the international agency was set
up by henry kissinger in 1974 to be the kind of club for oil consumers and even they've realized the mathematic of climate change is inexorable and there's no way to deal with the problem we face unless we take actions like the one this dutch corporate outlined today. they said shell has to cut emissions 45% by 2030, exactly what the intergovernmental panel on climate change said about two weeks ago. >> the decision effecting chevron and exxon today both happened through shareholder votes. >> yes. >> which is not the kind of place we look for the world's most exciting activism in terms of impact on the broader world. but it does team like this was sort of a magic trick, almost, in terms around the big companies. >> ten years ago exxon was the biggest company on planet earth and that's when we helped to launch in fossil fuel divestment
movement and we're $15 trillion in endowments and portfolios that have divested and so many people understand these guys can't keep going the way they were going. exxon is still powerful. but it's on the ropes in all kinds of ways. it's not just that they have to cut emissions it's that's as of tomorrow they're that much less powerful on capitol hill and ethic when it cops to lobby t cob when it comes to lobbying and state legislatures when it comes to asserting dominance. hour problem is we have to go very, very fast. we're behind the curve, most of the sea ice in the arctic is melted, not like this will see winds, it's just an awfully good sign people should keep fighting
hard. >> bill mckibben grass roots campaign 350.org thanks for helping us understand. >> thank you. >> all right. we'll be right back. stay with us. l be right back. stay with us [doorbell rings] thanks, baby. yeah, we 'bout to get spicy for this virtual date. spicy like them pajama pants. hey, the camera is staying up here. this is not the second date. with relapsing forms of ms... there's a lot to deal with. not just unpredictable relapses. all these other things too. it can all add up. kesimpta is a once-monthly at-home injection... that may help you put these rms challenges in their place. kesimpta was proven superior at reducing the rate of relapses, active lesions, and slowing disability progression vs aubagio. don't take kesimpta if you have hepatitis b, and tell your doctor if you have had it, as it could come back. kesimpta can cause serious side effects, including infections. while no cases of pml were reported in rms
clinical trials, it could happen. tell your doctor if you had or plan to have vaccines, or if you are or plan to become pregnant. kesimpta may cause a decrease in some types of antibodies. the most common side effects are upper respiratory tract infection, headache, and injection reactions. ready for an at-home treatment with dramatic results? it's time to ask your doctor about kesimpta. [ footsteps] ready for an at-home treatment with dramatic results? [ suspenseful music ] ♪♪ hey, you wanna get out of here? ah ha. we've got you. during expedia travel week, save 20% or more on thousands of hotels. just book between june 8th and 12th to plan your escape with expedia. expedia. it matters who you travel with.
. ♪ ♪ it's the biggest thing that ever happened to small. lease the gla 250 suv for just $399 a month at your local mercedes-benz dealer. ♪ ♪ look, if your wireless carrier was a guy you'd leave him tomorrow. not very flexible. not great at saving. you deserve better... xfinity mobile. now they have unlimited for just $30 a month... $30. and they're number one in customer satisfaction. his number... delete it. i'm deleting it. so, break free from the big three.
xfinity internet customers, take the savings challenge at xfinitymobile.com/mysavings. or visit and xfinity store to learn how our switch squad makes it easy to switch and save hundreds.   that's gonna do it for us tonight. we'll see you again tomorrow. now time for "the last word with lawrence o'donnell" good evening, lawrence. >> good evening,rachel. and i'm going to do something we've both been promising to do