spy on members of congress. what else? did he compromise the irs? somehow try to cover my the military? we need to understand the full extent because if we don't learn from this, i promise you there are people, including some running for president, who are watching this and say, "that's a pretty cool tool. i wonder what i might do with it." >> it's a good point about all the potential abuses of power, and congress may want to look into that. thank you so much are being here with us tonight. please stay safe.   that is "all in" for this thursday night.   "therachelmaddowshow" starts right now. >> before you go, we had to ask you and your staff to move a whole bunch of stuff around today in order to accommodate things for ourshow, and i am very, very grateful to you guys for being able to do that. i made your workday harder. i'm sorry, i owe you, and i am thankful. >> i will do anything for you.
no worries. >> thank you. i really appreciate it. thanks at home for joining us this hour. happy to have you here. i will tell you in advance we are having slight technical difficulties in terms of the technical aspects of getting stuff on theshow, so in case anything looks hinchey are unlike it usually does, don't worry. nothing is wrong. at least nothing wrong you need to worry about. plenty is wrong, trust me.   we start tonight in marshall, texas in east texas. really, really east texas. it is close to the louisiana state line, not far from shreveport, louisiana. and she was born there in 1926 in marshall, texas, four east texas. after being born in marshall, texas in the 20s, when she was 12 in june 1939, she and her family moved 200 miles west all the way to ft. worth. it was her and her two siblings
and her mom and dad. they moved all the way from near shreveport, louisiana, all the way to ft. worth to pay $165 for their house in new york avenue in ft. worth in the fifth ward in ft. worth. the neighborhood today, that is interstate and major highways that sort of have the effect of cutting it off from a lot of the rest of ft. worth, but back in the late 1930s, of course before all the interstate and all that, and the most important thing to know about the neighborhood when it came to young 12-year- old "and her family, was that they were a black family that was moving in for a way out east by the louisiana line, and that neighborhood they were moving into was a mostly white neighborhood. and they move there in june of 1939. they had been told apparently by a local real estate agent it would be fine, even though they
were a black family moving into a mostly white neighborhood. it was not fine. they did not last a week. and it made the local news in the headlines that are still hard to look at today. "ft. worth crowd attacks negros." a crowd of 500 persons stormed otis lake. the men hurled rocks at the house and entered the dwelling and began carrying furniture into the streets. after mr. flake, wife, and three children fled from the house. he moved into the house last friday for four nights since they had been there, police have watched of the area, to protest the moving of white residential negros in the district. here's another one. "mob evicts blacks from white
neighborhood. police today were investigating and near right which developed last that when a group of about 500 persons drove to otis lake, a negro from his recently purchased home." here is another one. "tran24 neighbors resisting. " that one was actually published in the ft. worth telegram before the attack that drove the family from their home. this article, "negro tenants are protested," described a crowd of 150 people who had to be dispersed from outside her home on that saturday night . it's quite possible that article from the "ft. worth star-telegram" about them fighting the encroachment of negros was part of how the crowd the next night ended up at 500 instead of 150, and that 500 strong crowd is the one that actually burned the house.
about 10 years ago, but kennedy at the ft. worth star-telegram dug out some of these old headlines of that attack on the flake family for a column he wrote about it. from the local headlines and the stories he was able to piece together at the time, he was able to fit together it evolved. police might've said they were investigating the, quote, mobbing. police told the local press at the time that the mob destroyed the family's window and broke windows, damaged the building, hit a man at the scene with the baseball bat. the next day, quote, they came and turned on the gas jet and fled. the building was burned too. even though that's what happened and the police were on it and had been on it for four straight nights, by the time the family was burned out, nobody was ever arrested, apparently. according to but kennedy. nothing further was published about the incident or any investigation. and like i said, she was 12 years old when it happened. one of three children of otis and maddie flake, who were
burned out of that home in june, 1931. she was interviewed about it by a reporter, angelique jackson. she told the police could not control them. my dad came home with a gun, and the police told him if he busted a cap, they will let that mob have him. if they had given us an opportunity to stay there and be their neighbors, they would have found that we did not want any more than what they had, a decent place to stay, jobs that paid , to be able to go to the school in the neighborhood even though it was a segregated school. we would have made good neighbors, she said, but they did not give us an opportunity, and i feel like everybody needs an opportunity. again, that attack that burned the flake family out of their home of what was literally the fourth night they were trying to sleep in that home, that happened in 1939, the summer of 1939 in ft. worth, texas. i want to put back up on the
screen the second one piece of that coverage from the time, the quote about when exactly it happened. remember this a lead from the first story from the ap i mentioned? "violent climax of observance of negro emancipation tonight ." violent climax observance of negro emancipation. what that awkward language from the newspaper in 1939 tells you is that this attack happened specifically on june 19th, 1939. it happened during the observance of the emancipation of african americans in the united states. it was june 19th, 1865 when general gordon granger and his union troops rode into galveston, texas after the end of the civil war, and they issue, he issued general order number three.
for the first time, bringing news to the 250,000 enslaved black people in texas at the time that, by law, they were free. it's a huge merle there in galveston on the site work general granger issued a proclamation. it's absolute equality? you see that? do 19, it has been celebrated in the state of texas a very long time. it has been a paid state holiday in texas since 1979. as in that local news article from 1939, it was a day delicately described as of the observance of negro emancipation, but what we call it now is juneteenth. vice president kamala harris said today at the white house, "history has been known as many days ." today, she said it's a national holiday. despite the attack on her family home in 1939 when she was just 12 years old, both young and often old enough to be deeply scarred and scared for life or something like that, young miss ", again 12 years old when it happened he
would she have survived that attack along with her two siblings and father and mother. she would go on to play an important role in ft. worth, where she lived the rest of her life. she was a teacher, went to work for a local charity, and she ultimately became part of the tarrant county black historical and genealogical society, which led the local juneteenth celebrations every year. but in 2016, when it was president obama's final year in office as president, as america's first black president, ms. ", her name is now opal lee, she decided she was going to go for broke. that she had been doing this work her whole life. she had a special reason for this to mean something very important to her, to turn it into something positive in her life, but she decided she would go big. she had written a letter to president obama, essentially warning him in the nicest possible way she was going to come to washington at some point
, and the point of her trip would be the texas holiday, juneteenth, should be celebrated all over the country. it should be a national holiday marking the end of slavery, not just the texas holiday bureau chief that we should celebrate it as a country from june 19th all the way to july the fourth for independence day, say way we celebrate mardi gras for a big chunk of february. she was saying that celebrate liberation and independence as a whole country together for the whole end of june to the first week of july peered juneteenth in june through july 4th. in july, let's make that our national reflection and celebration of independence, liberation, and freedom. she had sent president obama her letter, but in 2016 what it was his last year in office, she decided she would walk to washington, d.c. from ft. worth, texas. she was 89 years old when she did that. again, that was 2016. she has been leading a national effort to try to have a holiday recognized all these years.
she said that she wanted to bring 100,000 signatures on a petition to congress when she went to capitol hill in 2020. by the time she got to capitol hill with her petition in september of last year, september 2020, she did not have 100,000 signatures. she had 1.5 million signatures on her petition. now, she did not succeed in her goal on that trip to washington, september of last year. but, you know, try, try again. in february of this year, the legislation actually created the holiday was introduced yet again, and this time, well, you know, like she said, everybody needs an opportunity, and when the house passed it yesterday, ms. opal lee, 94 years old, she was overwhelmed with emotion. >> i'm just so many different feelings.
i don't know what to call them all. i'm so excited to know that, finally, we've got a juneteenth bill passed. >> so many feeling circling .. i don't know what to call them all. the house today held a signing ceremony to formally convey their passage of the bill and send it to the president for his signature. they don't have to do that, but you do that, right? when republican wisconsin senator ron josten dropped his opposition, vice president harris signed it as president of the senate . she did not have to do that, but for something like this, you do it, right? president biden was in geneva for his summit with the russian president only yesterday afternoon. it was not at all clear when he would be back and planning to sign the bill, but on june 19th, it is saturday, is a little hurry up was going to be worth it to celebrate it
as a country for the first time this year. not just this year, but this week, right now, and by right now, i mean this afternoon in the east room of the white house. ms. opal lee was on hand for the signing ceremony. she was given pride and plays with the front low seat along 80 members of congress and local officials, and activists and community leaders who advocated for this . her role in the offense that led to the passage of the bill warranted her a place in the vice president's remarks. >> throughout history, juneteenth has been known by many names, jubilee day, freedom day, liberation day, emancipation day. and today, a national holiday. >> [ applause ] >> and looking out across this room, i see the advocates, the activists, the leaders who have been calling for this for so
long, including the one and only ms. opal lee. >> [ applause ]. >> [ laughter ] >> you just received a very special recognition from the prez of the united states. >> opal lee today receiving a special thanks and congratulations from a kneeling president of the united states. you don't see that often . after that acknowledgment, it was president biden's turn to the occasion . the president noted juneteenth celebrates a day of what he called profound weight, but also profound power. a day in which americans must remember, quote, the moral stain
and the terrible toll that slavery took on the country, but also its ordinary capacity to heal and hope and make a better version of our self . president biden said today it was not just enough to commemorate juneteenth , to honor the true meaning of juneteenth we have to continue toward that promise because we have not gotten there yet. he said his administration is committing to getting there. he also referenced the continued attacks on voting rights led by republican-led legislatures across the country , saying the journey would not be easy, so long as the sacred right to vote remains under attack, and he too singled out ms. lee for helping us to get to where we find ourselves today as a country. >> we are blessed to mark the day with ms. opal lee. god bless her. i had the honor of meeting her in nevada more than a year ago. she told me she loved me, and i
believed it. i wanted to believe it. ms. opal, your incredible. a daughter of texas, grandmother of a movement to make juneteenth a federal holiday. you are an incredible movement, miss opal . she made it a mission that this day came. it was almost a singular mission. she has walked for miles and miles, literally and figuratively, to bring attention to juneteenth, to make this day possible. i ask, once again, we all stand and give her a warm welcome. >> [ applause ] >> 94 years old . a remarkable acknowledgment of the work of ms. opal lee today at the white house. you think about the two sides of this in her life. 12 years old, juneteenth, 1939, her family is burned out of their home in texas. that's by a white mob.
is never anybody held accountable, never anybody arrested. she lived her life celebrating the juneteenth holiday in texas, helping texans recognize it, and they do in that state . she discards the country needs to celebrate the holiday not because of what was decided to be done wrong to her. anytime somebody interviews her about the crusade, it's about celebrating the end of slavery. turning that day, which for her family was the darkest day imaginable, into something that is bright and positive and a moment of reflection for the country. after that recognition today from the president, of course, to sign the bill, the president called it an enormous to do so. he made sure that mentally, she got a souvenir to the historic day. she got the pen he used.
you know, and this is not to say that things are not going to get weird about the observance and recognition of this holiday. things are particularly weird on the right, right now in american politics, so how is this holiday going to roll out across the country? we'll see. congress and the president cannot actually proclaim a national holiday. shorthanded it is a national holiday, but it's not pure congress and the president cannot force the white observance in the same way in all 50 states. they can only declare a federal holiday, not national holiday here that means it is to be observed by federal workers were everyday work in the country. it is also to be observed in washington, d.c., but every state, it is every state's call whether or not they acknowledge or recognize the holiday and how they do so. and it is an interesting political dynamic that in
texas, juneteenth has been observed as a paid state holiday since the end of the '70s. maybe that will take some of the fear out of it for republican-controlled state around the country that texas has done it, and it's okay. the photos from the president's signing ceremony will reflect for history that republican senator john cornyn of texas was there at the desk when the president signed it, among all those democrats and ms. opal lee. yes, ms. opal lee was there and all the democrats who supported this, but so is john cornyn of texas , so maybe that will help. but you know, there is at least one republican state legislature candidate in virginia who's already proclaimed that this weekend he will hold a juneteenth community shooting day, a gun rally, community shooting for juneteenth. the good folks at fox news prepared last night for the signing of this new law commemorating the end of slavery by running an interview by one of the primetime host that was all about how black people just have lower iqs than
white people, and that explains why black people do get paid less for their work and why they should get paid less, because of the biological inferiority of the black race. that was in 1939 that that mob attacked in ft. worth. actually, that was. that interview on the fox news streaming channel conducted one of the primetime host? that was last night. we have a new national holiday commemorating the end of slavery as of today. federal workers will have tomorrow off in honor of the juneteenth holiday here juneteenth this year is saturday. it will be observed tomorrow. we've got a new holiday for that as of today, thanks in large part to opal lee . we've also gone a long, long way to go, and it's not going to be a straight line. ine. experience amazing at your lexus dealer. ♪ when i was young ♪ no-no-no-no-no please please no.
♪ i never needed anyone. ♪ front desk. yes, hello... i'm so... please hold. ♪ those days are done. ♪ i got you. ♪ all by yourself. ♪ go with us and find millions of flexible options. all in our app. expedia. it matters who you travel with. woo! you are busy... working, parenting, problem solving. expedia.
at new chapter vitamins we've been busy too... innovating, sourcing organic ingredients, testing them and fermenting. fermenting? yeah like kombucha or yogurt. and we formulate everything so your body can really truly absorb the natural goodness. that's what we do, so you can do you. new chapter wellness, well done.
look...if your wireless carrier was a guy, you'd leave him tomorrow. not very flexible. not great at saving. you deserve better - xfinity mobile. now, they have unlimited for just $30 a month. $30 dollars. and they're number 1 in customer satisfaction. his number? delete it. deleting it. so break free from the big three.
xfinity internet customers, take the savings challenge at xfinitymobile.com/mysavings or visit an xfinity store to learn how our switch squad makes it easy to switch and save hundreds.   it was just three days after the horrific, world
changing terrorist attacks of 9/11, when congress voted on a resolution to authorize the use of u.s. military force in response. that legally and formally started will ultimately become known as the war on terror, but in the immediate wake of that attack on the country, again, just a couple days after the attack, not a single member of congress voted against authorizing that use of military force. except for one. >> this unspeakable act on the united states is really forced me to rely on might moral conscience, my conscience, and my god for direction. september 11th changed the world. our deepest fears, they now haunt us. yet, i am convinced that military action will not prevent further acts of international terrorism against the united states.
>> can you imagine how scary it must have been to stand up and say that? we were so terrorized and terrorized as a country, but to have that courage of conviction, to have that sense of purpose and moral compass, to have the bravery to stand up and say, "this horrific act has maybe come to a different conclusion than all the rest of you, that every other member congress." imagine what that took in the moment . california congresswoman barbara lee was the household member of congress who decided that date that the tragedy of 9/11 just days earlier, horrible as it was, was not a good justification for an open ended legal authorization to get the u.s. involved anywhere in the world in what would become decades of war. a year later, the house was set to vote on yet another blanket authorization for the use of military force . this one heads to an invasion of iraq. that time, when the vote came , barbara lee was not alone.
132 upper house members voted with barbara lee against authorizing the use of force for the iraq war. that was not enough to stop the bill, so instead of one forever war, america had two then. this year will mark 20 years, and congresswoman barbara lee took that first soul vote against america's unending war . legal authorization allowed america to use military force in the name of 9/11 in a way that was unedited and global. during the time that those authorizations for use of force have remained in place, they have been used as justification for all kinds of military interventions all around the world, even one that had precisely 0 to do with iraq or afghanistan or 9/11. it became a blanket authorization for the use of military force at the president's say-so without the congress having to weigh in again. but now, all of a sudden, things . to be changing. today, the house of
representatives voted on resolutions to repeal the authorization for use of military force, the second one that started the iraq war. the lead sponsor of the bill to end one of america's longest wars, to end, repealed the authorization of use of military force was none other than the congresswoman, barbara lee , and this time she not only had company, but the majority was on her side. the resolution to repeal the authorization for the use of military force past 268-161. persist. persist, persist, persist. take forever. joining us democratic california congresswoman barbara lee. congresswoman lee, it's a real pleasure to have you here. it has been such a huge day today. >> thank you. nice meeting with you,rachel. >> i also have to ask you about the juneteenth vote and the signing ceremony. am i correct that you were at the signing ceremony today? >> yes.
this is quite a historical moment for our country. we need to make sure that the stories are told about everyone in our country, including african americans and the horrific, barbaric middle passage and slavery and what happened. i just have to say it is hurtful for me also because my grandfather, who helped raise me in texas, was born in galveston, texas in 1875, and my great-grandmother, fanny wilson, was enslaved in around galvin state in one of the small towns, so this is really a major deal. we celebrated it all our lives. i moved to california in 1960, but i continue to celebrate juneteenth, and my family did. but this is really a remark a moment, but it's also a moment to recommit ourselves to finish the unfinished business of justice and racial equity and true freedom for african americans.
>> for you, given the personal connection you just described, to the national commemoration of juneteenth, and your personal role, honestly, your legendary bravery on the issue of authorizing military force after the terrorist attacks of 9/11, to have these two things coming together at the same time in the house within 24 hours literally, this must be a pretty momentous time in your life. this must be like you sort of have risen to the peak. >>rachel, i tell you it's overwhelming in some respects, but it just reminds me of what we are in. i hope our young people understand that the fight for justice, the fight for democracy and to protect our constitution, sometimes it just does not happen right away, but we have to be persistent, know what we're doing. we have to believe. my dad was in the military, and there was no way that i could authorize the use of force forever, and that was a 60 word resolution after 9/11
alteration that i could not support. >> it was interesting for me to see that it was i think 49 republican members in the house joined more than 200 democrats in making this vote happen. i wanted to ask if you were surprised by hope are partisan this vote was . i see interesting contours where this issue of authorizing military force and the use of american military force around the world is not always fall neatly on partisan lines. i wanted to ask if those vote total surprise you at all and if that gives you any confidence in predicting what might happen in the senate, which would need to do the same thing in order for this to get to president biden's desk. >> we built the support over the years, and i just want to say i have to thank the chair and speaker pelosi see and helping us navigate this to get to the floor, but the american legion supported it, the americans for prosperity, so
this does not just happen overnight. we have built bipartisan support over the years, and i was very pleased we got 49 republican votes. i have been working with so many, and i have to remember walter jones a few years ago. he helped me start making this a bipartisan effort, so here we are now, moving on to the senate . we're cautiously optimistic that we'll be able to move this forward . the present has indicated he plans to embrace the issue, a statement of support, so we have to keep working, and i'm hopeful and confident that, sooner or later, hopefully, this year, we will get this to president biden's desk for signature. >> it is your work bearing fruit tonight in so many ways. i don't know about your personal situation in your life right now, congresswoman lee, but you better have somebody who bought you flowers or at
least a cocktail tonight because this is the culmination of a lot of very hard work , and it's a testament to your leadership, ma'am. thank you so much. >> really enjoyed being with you. >> as i said, that bill that passed the house in an overwhelming vote and bipartisan vote, it now heads to the senate, and as congresswoman lee just mentioned there, she's an advocate for repealing this authorization for the use of military force. is an advocate for repealing that in the senate has been tim kaine. he happens to sit where this gets a vote in the senate . senator kaine joins us now . thank you so much are being here. i appreciate you taking the time with us tonight. >>rachel, it's great to be with you and especially to follow barbara because she has been so fantastic on this issue. juneteenth and the reveal, she needs to buy a lottery ticket because i think it's a very lucky day.
>> senator, she said she's talked with you about what happens here next. as i mentioned, i feel like the partisan lines don't match neatly on this issue, either in terms of using u.s. military sport force in specific instances or the open-ended authorizations where it never has to go back to congress and we feed that power to the president in a way that the constitution did not mean for us to do. because it does not have meet partisan lines and neat partisan mapping, i feel like these things are hard to predict in the senate . do you share congresswoman lee's optimism , cautiously, that this repeal is going to pass the senate too? >>rachel, i do, and i'm not so cautious. i think we're going to get a great vote tuesday. i have a cosponsor in this effort for repeal. congress passed these war resolutions
and never repealed them, and they float up there in space like zombies that can be used by mischief making two cause damage. it was a historic vote in the house because congress does not have a track record of repealing, buttogether with todd young, todd young, constitutional conservative from indiana, marine veteran, he is my chief, so if you think about barbara lee, one of the most progressive members of congress, todd young , constitutional conservative, i'm 63 years old. i am still not figured out a label for myself, but i think we've got a great path to a strong bipartisan senate vote tuesday, and then we have both the house bill that barbara has championed, our senate bill, and we're also writing the defense authorizing that in place to put the repeal of the iraq resolution, so we've got a couple things we're going to to
talk about and get to joe biden's desk, but this will be a big historic step, and he wrote a book about this in 2012, about the way we have switched from congress, declaring war. that was what our framers decided wouldbe best. we drifted to unilateral executive wars, and that is been to our nation's detriment. this is one branch trying to pull some of its power back to the way it was intended to be. >> because of that, first of all, thank you for plucking my book. this might be a first in cable news history, where they get plugs the host's book. this is man bites dog. but i will say because of that dynamic that you're describing there, that basic constitutional dynamic which i think is at play here, it seems to me like almost as a positive thing, really important part of
this, that president biden supports doing this. i mean, the beneficiary of these open- ended authorizations of military force can be used anywhere in the world indefinitely without ever having to come back to congress with their say-so . the beneficiary of that is the commander in chief who can order military action without consulting with congress. for a president to say, you know what? i should not have that power in an open-ended way, and we should return to the way the constitution intended these authorizations should be ended, and if we need a new one for specific reason, we will pass it then, and it will be open ended. that seems like a counterintuitive thing for a president to agree to . was that essentially the spark to finally get this done after all the debate that you and congresswoman lee have led on this all these years? >> i would say, you know, barbara has been a spark, and i praise todd young, my republican colleague. i think the ingredient that has been key is joe biden, and i would say is joe biden's confidence and competence. no
one who's been president of the united states since lbj has understood more the powers then joe biden. 36 years in the senate, and it takes an extremely self- confident president to say, "i want to inhabit every square centimeter of the article to powers, but i'm not threatening by congress and having every square centimeter of the article 1 powers." most presidents feel threatened when congress starts to exert some interest in war powers issues. joe biden does not feel threatened. he understands congress had to be as vigorous and protective of article one powers as the president is of article to powers, so, i think we will successfully repeal the zombie iraq authorization of 1991 and 2002, and my hope is i september
, the 20th anniversary of the 2001 authorization to wage war against terrorist groups who attacked us, i think we will hopefully reach a handshake deal with the white house about the way to more narrowly describe and describe to the american public and provide limits on our actions against terrorists, so we are working closely on the layouts for this, and it's night and day to have a white house work on this, versus one that sees it as a threat to their own prerogatives. >> right, exactly . one who not only understands the constitutional prerogatives but is not insecure about them. it is amazing, how much progress you can make once you drop that. virginia senator tim kaine whose led and educated on this issue for so long. this is a big step forward. i'm sure the next few days is
going to be interesting as it heads to the senate. keep us apprised. thanks for helping us out tonight. >> thanks,rachel.   much more ahead. ahead. their only competition is each other. the incomparable mercedes-benz suvs. extraordinary runs in the family. visit your local mercedes-benz dealer for exceptional financing offers on select suvs. ♪ ♪ tonight...i'll be eating cheesy cauliflower pizza with extra broccolini. my tuuuurrrrn! tonight...i'll be eating cheesy cauliflower pizza and yummy broccolini! (doorbell rings) thanks. (doorbell rings) thank you. ♪ ♪ is that my leotard? no. yes... ehh, you can keep it.
what can i du with less asthma? with dupixent i can du more... yardwork... teamwork... long walks.... that's how you du more, with dupixent, which helps prevent asthma attacks. dupixent is not for sudden breathing problems. it's an add-on-treatment for specific types of moderate-to-severe asthma that can improve lung function for better breathing in as little as two weeks. and can reduce, or even eliminate, oral steroids. and here's something important. dupixent can cause serious allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis. get help right away if you have rash, shortness of breath, chest pain, tingling or numbness in your limbs.
tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection, and don't change or stop your asthma treatments, including steroids, without talking to your doctor. are you ready to du more with less asthma? just ask your asthma specialist about dupixent.

it's basically 1 in every 10 people in the country . the total number of americans who have health insurance because of the affordable care act, obamacare, clocks in at around 31 million people. today, all 31 million people can breathe a little bit of a sigh of relief because the supreme court this morning rejected a case brought by republican-led statement to kill it altogether. they left it in place, and they block it was conservatives' third effort at the supreme court to try to kill the bill. the supreme court first upheld the constitutionality of obamacare nine years ago. i was a 5-4 ruling. 60s ago, they upheld the
constitutionality again with a 6-3 ruling. even though today the court has three justices appointed by president trump, it was even more lopsided. it's gone from 5-4 to 6-3 to 7- 2. they ruled that the republican officials in texas and the other republican states that were suing did not have standing to bring the suit. but it does seem at least for now that this fight is over . republicans could keep trying, but i might recommend that they get a new hobby. the majority opinion indicates it was written by the centerleft justice, stephen breyer. stephen breyer's name has been a lot of headlines recently because he's been facing impassioned calls to step down from people who worry about a repeat of what happened in 2016, when republicans blocked president obama from filling justice scalia's seat. nobody
is confident that joe biden would be allowed to put his own nominee on the court. we expect a little more than a dozen other outstanding cases to be decided by the supreme court. in three different days, they have rulings next week, but the biggest ruling of the term is now decided . the affordable air cac today. should we expect news of significant? is nobody i would rather talk about this than with dahlia lisick. dahlia, it is great to see you. thank you for joining us tonight. >> that time of year. good to see you,rachel. >> i know we've got three more days and which we're going to
get more ruling. i think it's monday, wednesday, and friday, but the most consequential ruling we were waiting on was on the affordable care act. >> there was a collision between religious liberties and civil rights and foster care in philadelphia. that also was quite a narrow decision. i think you're right here this is the one a lot of folks were holding their breath around. >> in terms of the close of this court session, as we look toward the end of next week and the court issuing all its rulings, a lot of people around the country are looking at the court and wondering if justice breyer is going to retire, so he can leave on his own terms, and it gives not only the democratic president but the democratic-controlled, narrowly democratically controlled senate right now a chance to replace him. what do you think of all the drama around that? >> it is such a funny situation,rachel, because the
only person in the end who's the determinant of what he's going to do is stephen breyer, and he has made clear time and time again, including in an interview he gave me at christmas time, that he just does not think that court justices are political, and this is a political question, and he will retire when he wants to retire, but all of the sort of swirling questions about we have a 50/50 senate, mitch mcconnell announcing this week he's not going to ever confirm a biden nominee if he gets control of the senate. none of that seems to be part of justice breyer's calculus, and i would think paradoxically, the more he is pushed , there's a bunch of ads that are coming out in the next couple of days, a whole bunch of liberal scholars, 18 scholars that signed a letter saying please get off the court. the more he is pushed, the more -- in some sense he's persuaded this looks political, so he
better stick around. >> in terms of how the court is operating right now, we've had some unusual flips in terms of the number of votes . i think people were surprised to see justice thomas on the side he came down today for the msnbc eight ruling, although it was decided on these narrow standing grounds. i wonder, people also read into the fact that justice breyer wrote the opinion in the affordable care act, that that was a sign we should read into what's going on with the justices. do you think those are tea leaves worth reading in terms of how the votes split happened, how the consensus efforts are going led by this chief justice, who's writing which opinions. we treat it like criminology, but do you think that step is worth watching or no? >> i mean, it's worth watching, but i will be super, super precise to say that at the same moment, this morning, that a lot of court watchers were
saying, "john roberts signed the aca case to justice breyer. that is him probably telling him that his work is done peered" equal numbers say "john roberts signed the aca case to justice breyer . that i'm not sure what to make of the fact that the chief justice assigned this to breyer, but i think it's just of a piece of this larger effort to say, why is it that everybody wants steve breyer to retire? i think the more we push him, the more he digs in. >> i'm not pushing. i would never push. i've never pushed anything in my life, why would i push now? dahlia hosts the excellent "amicus" podcast on slate. dahlia, thank you as always, always great to have you here. >> always a treat, thank you. ♪ where everybody knows your name ♪
♪♪ ♪ and they're always glad you came ♪ welcome back, america. it sure is good to see you. [tv announcer] come on down to our appliance superstore where we've got the best deals on refrigerators, microwaves, gas ranges and grills. and if you're looking for... among my patients i often see them have teeth sensitivity as well as gum issues. where we've got the best deals on refrigerators, microwaves, does it worry me? absolutely. sensodyne sensitivity and gum gives us a dual action effect that really takes care of both our teeth sensitivity as well as our gum issues. there's no question it's something that i would recommend. that i wo♪ ♪ ♪ecommend.
♪ ♪ ♪ hey google, turn up the heat. ♪ ♪ ♪ 76% of 23andme health customers surveyed reported taking healthier actions. because they know health isn't just a future state. health happens now. this father's day, get $50 off health + ancestry kits.
if you have this... consider adding this. an aarp medicare supplement insurance plan from unitedhealthcare. medicare supplement plans help by paying some of what medicare doesn't... and let you see any doctor. any specialist. anywhere in the u.s. who accepts medicare patients. so if you have this... consider adding this. call unitedhealthcare today for your free decision guide. ♪ this is the epson ecotank color printer. for your free decision guide. no more buying cartridges.
big ink tanks. lots of ink. print about... this many pages. the epson ecotank. just fill and chill. (gong rings) - this is joe. (combative yelling) he used to have bad breath. now, he uses a capful of therabreath fresh breath oral rinse to keep his breath smelling great, all day long. (combative yelling) therabreath, it's a better mouthwash. at walmart, target and other fine stores.
senator joe manchin is the only democrat in the u.s. senate who's saying he won't support the big voting rights bill the democrats and biden administration are pushing. senator manchin said he won't sign on to any bill expanding voting rights or protecting voting rights unless some republicans agree to vote for it too. mitch mcconnell, the republican leader in the senate, has pledged that zero republican senators will vote for a voting rights bill no matter what. but senator manchin has effectively blamed democrats for that, implying that they're to blame for republicans all saying no to it. they're to blame for crafting their voting rights bill in such a way that no republicans felt like they could get behind it. interesting development, though, on this. yesterday, rather than just continuing to say that, blaming his colleagues, senator manchin decided he would try to prove it. he decided to sort ofshowhis work on his theory. he wrote up a list of what he thought should go in a voting rights bill that he thought should get both democratic and republican support. it's a very different set of
proposals than what democrats have put in their bill. has a bunch of stuff that republicans want and.dids really don't. but he's doing this toshowthat there's a way that he understands to write a voting bill that republicans will vote for. earlier this week, senator manchin tried to prove the point. he met with eight senators from the republican side of the aisle to pitch them on his so-called compromise voting rights plan. even with all that, even with his everything i want and nothing i don't offering, even with him personally working republican senators on the other side of the aisle to get them to vote for his plan which he crafted specifically to appeal to them, look at what the republican leader, mitch mcconnell, said today about joe manchin's new pitch. "same rotten core." you see the headline there. "mcconnell rejects manchin's voting rights compromise." senator manchin, you are not going to get the ten republican senators you would need to vote for your voting rights compromise. mitch mcconnell just said it.
he said zero republicans will vote to defend voting rights in any way. in any way, shape, or watered-down form. if the country is going to have any action, they defense on voting rights, it is going to have to be without any republicans. that is not just what critics of senator manchin have been saying, that's what senator manchin has just proven with his bipartisan experiment, his maximalist bipartisan experiment on voting rights. senator manchin says defending the right to vote is a priority for him, but he has now himself proven that there's only one path to get it, which is to change the senate rules so that voting rights can be passed by democrats alone. what next, senator? liberty mutual customizes car insurance so you only pay for what you need. how much money can liberty mutual save you?
one! two! three! four! five! 72,807! 72,808... dollars. yep... everything hurts. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ centrum multigummies aren't just great tasting... they're power-packed vitamins... that help unleash your energy.
loaded with b vitamins... ...and other key essential nutrients... ...it's a tasty way to conquer your day. try centrum multi gummies. now with a new look. [sfx: thunder rumbles] [sfx: rainstorm] ♪♪ comfort in the extreme. ♪♪ the lincoln family of luxury suvs.
all right, that is going to do it for us tonight. thank you for bearing with us through some of our technical difficulties. i know theshowsometimes looked a little cattywampus tonight. we'll try to have it back on dry land by tomorrow. i'll see you again tomorrow night. now it's time for "the last word with lawrence o'donnell." >> i listened to your discussion about the supreme court decision 89 holding the hak, affordable care act, i'll the p