we felt shocked. we were stunned that we, you know, as reporters we learned this, you know, when we were reporting for "the washington post," we were shocked. i'd like to know more. >> thank you. appreciate it. that is "all in" on this wednesday night. "therachelmaddowshow" starts now.   thanks for joining us. really happy to have you here. we start tonight with breaking news just in the last few minutes. law enforcement authorities in washington, d.c., have started putting up a ring of protective fencing around the u.s. capitol again. this is, you will recall, quite similar to the fencing around the capitol around the january 6th attack on the capitol by trump supporters seeking to overturn the results of the presidential election. the fencing initially went up
very quickly after the attack. it's ended up staying up until july. that fence was unsettling for a lot of people. it was a profound change in what the cws government looks like, for one, and what it feels like to be in washington, d.c. it's fair to say there was relief when the fencing finally came down in july, but as of right now, as of just this hour, these are live images here, it's going back up. nobody expects it will be up for months on end again. but it is going up as of tonight because of a saturday event, an event planned for this weekend in which trump supporters are saying they are going to converge on the capitol led by a former trump campaign official and their convergence on the capitol this weekend is explicitly organized around them celebrating the january 6th attack and denouncing the
arrests and prosecution of the people who participated in it. so as of right now we are watching these images as the fence is moved into place and put back up around the capitol. if you know the geography of the capitol, the fenced in area will be between independence and constitution avenues and first street in the west and first street in the east. the u.s. capitol police are saying this new round of fencing will come down, hopefully, very quickly after any threat poised by saturday's events has passed. let's hope so. we'll see. nbc news reports that online discussion among trump supporters about this weekend's event suggest a small turnout with lots of extreme exist trump groups warning followers if they cop to the capitol they will likely get arrested or put on some sort of fbi watch list. unfortunately, that's not
stopping messages like this one though. explicitly begging for violence. they are surrounding the discussions around this week's event. this is found by ben collins and brandy reporting on this for msnbc. d.c. residents themselves are being told that no matter the size of the gathering this weekend, they should be on the lookout for people who have brought weapons. these flyers are going up all over downtown d.c. over the last few days. if you see someone with a firearm, immediately call 911. are but again we will keep an eye on this scene tonight as the protective fencing has started going back up the u.s. capitol. this started moments ago. the seat of our pants nation's government having to dress up like a military installation because of the lingering symptoms of the trump era in u.s. politics fofrmtz no.
last night gavin newsom defeat add trump inspired recall effort by a landslide margin. for how much of a perception this was, what a waste of $260 million it turned out to be for the people of california, consider governor newsom was elected in 2018. he won by a gigantic margin. he won the governorship with 69% of the vote. last night in the recall all the votes aren't in yet, they will be coming in for a few weeks though, but last night in the recall the don't recall gavin newsom vote may have been even larger than the vote to elect him in the first place. as of right now, the don't recall gavin newsom vote stands at 63.9%, which is two points higher than the vote he got to win the governorship in the first place in 2018.
the republicans whole rationale tore doing this recall is they didn't think california was truly a blue state. they thought it was some kind of accident that gavin newsom became governor by a 24 point margin three years ago and surely it was an accident that joe biden won the presidential race there by almost 30 points last year. surely republicans believed that california had just kind of screwed that up, didn't really mean it. california would take back the votes if they just had the chance. turns out california did not want to take that back. they feel more emphatically opposed to republican options than ever. keep asking, you guys. you will keep finding out. part of what the republicans were banking on, i think, in terms of turning around political sentiment in california was that they were absolutely sure, absolutely sure that californians really didn't want all these policies to try to stop the spread of covid-19, right? didn't we agree it's terrible to
have these policies that people have to get vaccinated and you have to wear masks to slow the spread of the virus.   y'all with me on these terrible policies? no. california does not agree with that. exit poll data from the california vote shows that voters in the recall believed by a very wide margin that gavin newsom's vaccination and mask policies to try to stop covid-19 were either just about right or they should be even stronger. they weren't strict enough. those two answers together just with dwarfing the number of california voters, the minority of california voters who said they wanted fewer anti-covid policies in place. republican talking points on this are out of keeping with what the american people think on this issue no matter how emphatic the republicans in conservative media get on this issue, the american public are not with them. those numbers from california jibe neatly with what we see at the national level, from conservative media figures, public elected officials, almost
uniformly the american people broadly favor the kinds of policies pursued by gavin newsom in california, the kind of policies president biden is pursuing to try to get covid under control. there are a roft of polls rightly in the last week or two. look today at the you inowes axios pole. 60% of the country says they are in specifically in support of the biden administration's new requirements that businesses with over 100 employees need to require either vaccination or regular covid testing for their employees. that's 60% support nationwide. even with all of the conservative media and all republican politicians scream being that for a week now that it's the end of the world. country's in favor of it. today president biden met with ceos from some of the biggest countries in the country to talk about implementing the new rules and keeping their big work forces safe. that comes as new cdc data shows
that since the start of the epidemic the cumulative death toll from covid has just been staggering. one in every 500 americans have has been killed by covid. one in five americans have died from covid and counting. over the last couple of weeks we have covered this sad and so unsettling story out of north idaho. hospitals in idaho, big ones ha rationing care because of the crush of covid patients overwhelming the system. it's a terrible thing. people who otherwise would be admitted to the hospital because offage emergency situation, because of an accident, because of the emergence of an acute illness, they are being turned away and told the hospital can't
take them in. and as said, that is the case right now in north idaho. this is the front page of the paper in twin falls, idaho, in the southern part of the state. you see that top of the headline there rationed health care imminent. that's because the state of idaho now says they are preparing to go to the same crisis standards of care that no room at the inn rationing system in north idaho they are preparing to, panned to the treasury u valley region, where boise is. so that's a bad situation that is getting worse in idaho and other states, including kentucky and a few other states approaching that. tonight we are going to be checking in with a family doctor who is the medical chief of staff at the largest hospital in the state of alaska. alaska of course is a huge far-flung state with lots of small isolated communities in
it. in a state like that people come to the biggest hospital in the state. they come to anchorage to the providence alaska medical center there. they come from all over the state for all he levels of care. well, that hospital, that key resource for the state of alaska has gone to the rationing system that north idaho has been in for the past few days. the doctors in anchorage have written a heart rending but very practical letter to the people of alaska today advising the people of alaska what that means. the chief of staff from the hospital is going to join us live in just a few minutes tonight.   and further breaking news tonight from "the new york times." bottom line, this is a new strange development in a story that was weird from the start when we first started covering if almost five years ago. so this was a story that began
just a few days before the 2016 election on halloween 2016. that night journalist franklin published this. was a trump server communicating with russia? remember this? this is a strange story no one knew quite what to do with at the time or in the years since. high end well represented people to their surprise stumbled on evidence that appeared indicate some kind of extensive unexplained ongoing communication between a computer server at a kremlin connected russian bank in moscow, alpha bank, communicate being a server at the trump ogg, at donald trump's business. the importance of the story from the beginning was that nobody knew what that meant. nobody knew what this was. the headline of the story at
slate was posed in the form of a question. was a trump server communicating with russia? was it? it was something weird. there was something unexplained and odd in the data. as a very basic matter, what the data showed, what the evidence appeared toshowwas just pings, communicative pings between the servers, the one at the russian bank in moscow and the one for the trump organization. nobody could see the content of the communications or even if there was any content or substantive communication at all. it was just you raw internet metadata showed these computers pinging each other. and 99.999999% of people wouldn't even know how to read that kind of data. but experts who do understand that kind of stuff saw it, sort of uncovered it in the wild and thought it was a strange finding. it was unusual. yes, it might be benign. it might be a glitch. it might be really nothing. but it was weird. and the upshot of that reporting
and the reason those cybersecurity folks showed that data to reporters and walked them through it is because at the time they thought it was odd and suspicious enough it should be looked at, particularly given all the other concerning stuff that appeared to be going on at the time with russia trying to interfere in our election, russian hackers breaking into the democratic party and the clinton campaign and the rest of it. of course, you know, in the end we learned much more about russia actually interfering in the election, russia mounting a huge social media campaign to influence americans and divide americans and lead americans about the election campaign, russia not only breaking into the democratic party and its servers in order to steal information from the clinton campaign and the dnc, but to repurpose it and turn it around and weaponize it and try to use it to greatest effect to help donald trump try to get elected president. we would learn lots more about that in years to come. not to mention all that we learned about the trump
campaign's apparent willingness to engage covertly with the russian government while the russian government was engaged in activities like that on their behalf. we still never had a proper explanation as to why trump's campaign chairman at the time fed private nonpublic proprietary public data in the middle of the campaign to a russian intelligence offer. they concluded it was involved in the efforts by russia to influence the election on trump's behalf. all of that came out in the following years. at time before the 2016 election on halloween 2016 this thing about these weird communications between trump organization servers and the russian bank servers was basically a note of intrigue and it was never conclusively determined to be anything. it remained a sidebar point of interest, an unexplained thing in the russia investigation that never got resolved. when robert mueller wrote his
report he ignored the alpha bank matter entirely. the senate intelligence committee when they wrote their determinative report they said the contacts between the trump organization and the alpha bank, at least the contacts between their servers, they said they were unusual contacts, but they said their investigators could never positively conclude what those contacts might have been. the closest the whole thing ever came to any sort of apparent resolution was in this hotly contested story in the "new york times" came out at the same time the slate story did. "the times" reported that the fbi looked into this matter. spent several weeks looking into the matter and ultimately concluded there could be innocuous explanation for the contacts. but that was basically that. that was basically how to resolved. alpha bank and its kremlin-connected executives have always vociferously denied the allegations that they had
anything to do with the trump campaign or any kind of election interference. in fact, alpha bank claimed into a pair of lawsuits that the allegations or the intimations in this reporting were all some sort of giant frame-up. they claimed that these computer scientists, these computer researchers fabricated these server communication records in order to smear their company and smear the trump campaign. here's where we get to tonight's breaking news because that quite baroque theory that the unexplained server look-ups between this bank and the trump organization, you know, they are not evidence of a and not innocuous pings. alfit was forged fabricated, ok straighted by the clinton
campaign and the democrats and the deep state to frame donald trump by inventing out of whole cloth a super hard to understand totally unclear random server ping technical conspiracy that no one understands, i mean, it sounds outlandish, sounds pointless to you and me, right? if you are going to frame somebody, this isn't how you would do it. you would make it so it was something people could understand. not this confusing bit of metadata that nobody could interpret. alfa bank has been pursuing that in the courts. the trump justice department appears to have sort of run with that. and we are just now tonight starting to see the results of that, even though it's eight month since the trump administration left office. this john durham. he was a state attorney in connecticut. a month after the meuller report, bill barr gave him a new task.
he told him to go out and examine where the trump-russia investigation came from in the first place. this was something trump had been demanding for a long time. there is no russia investigation. anybody who says the russia thing out to be investigated. they investigated. so barr gave durham this remit. dig up some investigation which culminated in the mueller report was bogus, cooked up by false pretenses by the anti-trump destaters or the clinton campaign or ukraine, whatever you can find to support trump he is insistence that the whole thing was a hoax, that the whole thing was in fact a crime against him. and you might not be award of this. you may not have heard john durham's name if you don't rec larly consume right-wing media, but on the fox news channel and republican lawmakers have been
constantly heralding what the durham investigation was going to reveal. all of the people who were going to go to jail for investigating trump and russia, for, in their words, you know, ginning up this false investigation. john durham was going to blow the russia hoax wide open, lock her up, lock her up. president trump frequently tweet about john durham and the durham investigation apparently furious that durham hadn't put out a report before the 2020 election, something attorney general bill barr pressured durham to do. since out of office, where is durham's damning report? where are the kiemts? indictments? why are my enemies not in handcuffs? years the durham investigation has been the holy grail for trump and his supporters the thing that will expose the russia investigation some crime
against trump. one of the angles durham has been working on that alfa bank and the trump organization were framed by computer scientists who supposedly found communications between the servers, computer scientists who discussed those communications and passed it on to the press and passed it on to the fbi for investigation. here is what has broken tonight in "the new york times." quote, john durham, special counsel appointed by the trump administration to scrut nieds the russia investigation told the justice department he will ask a grand jury to indict a prominent cyber lawyer on a charge of making a false statement to the fbi. any indictment of the lawyer, michael sus nen, a former
federal prosecutor, now a partner the perkins coie law firm who rented the dnc on issues related to russia's 2016 hacking of the servers, is likely to attract significant political attention. the case centers on the question who his cliend was when he conveyed certain sus sfigss about trump and russia to the fbi in september 2016. investigators have examined whether he was secretly working for the clinton campaign, which he denies. his lawyers tell "the times," quote, he has committed to climb. any prosecution would be baseless, unprecedented which the doj doj is supposed to do the work. the acquisition against sussman focuses on a meeting he had in
2016 with the fib's top lawyer at the time, james baker. at the meeting sussman relayed data and unless from cybersecurity researchers who thought that odd internet data might be evidence of a covert communications channel between computer service associated with the trump organization and those associated with alfa bank, a kremlin linked financial institution. sussman's lawyers have told doj that he sought that meeting with the fbi because he and the cybersecurity researchers believed "the new york times" was on the verge of publishing an article about the alfa bank data and they wanted to give the fbi a heads up. durham did apparently find an inconsistency as pertains to mr. sussman. james baker the former fbi lawyer is said to have told investigators that he recalled sussman telling him that he was not meeting him to convey this information on behalf of any client but in a deposition before congress in 2017 sussman testified that he did seek that fbi meeting on behalf of a
client, an unnamed client who was a cybersecurity expert who had helped analyze the data. so like i said, this is a weird development in the story that has been weird from the beginning. according to what "the new york times" is reporting tonight, what john durham, this trump-appointed, right, bill barr-appointed special counsel, what he is preparing to do is charge this cybersecurity lawyer, michael sussman, with having told someone at the fbi that he was not representing a client when in fact he was representing a client. he conveyed this information, this suspicion information to the fbi. hey, this has national security concerns. hey, this is about to be in the press. the fbi ought to look into this. here is the data that we think is basically what "the new york times" has, that reporters are about to put out to the public. this has national security implications. here, fib, you should have it.
the basis for the prosecution, at least as reported by "the new york times," is that when sussman did that, he told them, i'm handing this over not on behalf of a client. he says that he was doing it on behalf of his cybersecurity client who had dug up this suspicious data in the first place but the suspicion planted by john durham and company was that sussman was secretly representing the hillary clinton campaign. there is reportedly evidence that sussman billed some of his work to the clinton campaign at some point, his large firm was representing the clinton campaign at the time. his lawyers say there is an innocuous explanation for that. here is the key point about this investigation. quote, some of the questions that durham's team have been asking in recent months, including of witnesses it subpoenaed before a grand jury, suggest he has been pursuing a
they ary that clinton campaign used their law firm to submit dubious information to the fbi about russia and trump to gin up investigative activity to hurt his 2016 campaign. there has been no sign that he has found any evidence that have theory. so what that apparently leaves durham with is a lawyer who gave some -- the fbi some information he says he thought they should have. the fib chased that down and decided, eh, it's probably nothing. and maybe that lawyer, there is some question as to whether he fully revealed who he was representing at that time? does it matter who he was representing at the time? as for why this case is being brought now, well, look at clock. the meeting in question here happened on september 19, 2016. what's today's date? september 15, 2021. because of a five-year statute of limitations for such cases, mr. durham has a deadline of
this weekend to bring a charge over activity from that date. literally the statute of limitations, i think, expires on sunday. here it is wednesday and he is rushing to get this done before the statute of limitations expires. this indictment is apparently not filed yet. we do not have all the facts yet. whether this lawyer told the fbi something untrue, whether it matters who his client was when he gave this information for the fbi for them to look into, that may be hashed out in court. but the big picture here, the substance of the suspicion around the alfa bank stuff is that this might be evidence of some means of the covert communication between u.s. presidential campaign and a foreign entity trying to influence our election. if you came across that, you had some cybersecurity expert guy who was your client and he brought you that data, whether you were working for hillary clinton or you were working for donald trump or you were working
for freaking donald duck, if you were a computer scientist or experienced cybersecurity lawyer who have the cybersecurity chops to know what that data meant, what the worst-case scenario about this would mean in terms of our national security of the country, the responsible thing to do is to take it to the fbi. hopefully, any one of us who came across data like this and didn't know what it meant but worried it could be something serious two take it the fbi. that's what they tell you to do. if you see something, say something, right? that seems like the right thing to docks understandable thing to do in this circumstance, right? the special counsel appointed by bill barr left in place during the biden administration and apparently left room to roam by attorney general merrick garland is trying to criminalize that act. see something, say something? if you said something about donald trump, we'll try to put new jail. joining us now is barbara mcquade, former u.s. attorney.
thank you very much for being here. trjts thank you. >> we started covering this five years ago and it never came to anything in terms of the substance of this. nobody ever seems to have figured out whether there was anything going on between alfa bank and the trump organization. because of that, the story hasslingered and the loose end interest been frayed and out there in the wind all of this time. that said, regardless of the underlying suspicions that gave rise to this as a story in the first place, what is your opinion of the strength of the legal case here? the prospect of this lawyer being indicted for having brought this stuff to the fbi? >> well, i guess i would withhold judgment until i see what the case is and what the facts are that it's based on. we have some reporting, i guess i don't know if we know the whole story. based on the reporting i hear, i don't hear any evidence of the essential element of materiality. that is you know, not every
false statement is a crime. only the important ones. you know, if you lie about some irrelevant detail, that doesn't matter. so i don't know that there is evidence that he is lying at all. but even if he is about whether he was there on behalf of no client or he was there on behalf of a cyber expert, it really doesn't matter. when you have information about a crime, the fbi takes it in and assesses it based on its value. some things, you know, seem like it is not worthy of further investigation. people call the fbi all day, every day to say, you know, little green martians are interfering with my thoughts. other cases they do investigate. the fact that you -- whether you are representing a client or not representing a client, i don't think it's material to this. and it's especially rich in light of the fact that these investigators at doj who are looking at the russia matter in defense of president trump in
the michael flynn case dismissed that case because they found that his statements were not material. you remember that he lied to at fbi about what he said to the russian ambassador during the transition time. if those aren't material, it's really difficult to see how this omission or false statement is in any way material here. >> also it strikes me again, looking at this as a non-lawyer, the statute of limitations is the end of the week. it's a five-year statute of limitations. it appears to expire this weekend. should we read into that? does that suggest anything about the strengths or merits of the case given that durham is against clock and the fact that the details of at least this indictment that they are seeking appear to have been spelled out in a lot of detail to the press? >> yeah, i don't know. you get that fifth year because you get the fifth year. that time is part of it.
it may be they wanted to make sure they have taken every step. it may be that merrick garland requested a detailed review of this all the way up the chain and that has taken so long. but it does tend to suggest that they have worked very, very hard and this is all they've got. which doesn't sound like much. begin, i want to reserve judgment until we see all the facts because it could be, as so often happens, that the first charge is not last charge. that this is the first charge and it's an effort to obtain leverage over someone to attempt to obtain their cooperation, to see if there is more information you can charge. but the statute of limitations is going to be butting up any other charges they decide to file as well. i also think this whole theory about that the origins of the russia investigation were some political propaganda or something that, has already been dispelled. in 2019 we had the department of justice inspector general issue a report that says it was properly predicated.
even john durham himself, although he gave a misleading public statement at the time that said he disagreed with the conclusions when he was pressed on that, what he said was i think it was properly opened as a preliminary investigation. i would not have opened it as a full investigation, which is a really bureaucratic difference. and so the fact that it was properly predicated on the basis of these stolen emails that george papadopoulos bragged about to a diplomat, it's hard to see how this is material even if there is a technical omission or lie here. it also causes me to wonder why merrick garland is allowing this to happen. he has the ability to pull the plug on this. i worry that he is so concerned about appearing to be independent and nonpartisan that he is bending over backwards to a fault. >> barbara mcquade, former u.s. attorney, somebody would who has never, ever been hyperbolic in the conversations i have had with you. that's a serious thing to say. thanks for being here.
thanks for your clarity. >> thanks,rachel.   much more ahead tonight. stay with us.   muchor me ahead tonight. stay with us for people living with h-i-v, keep being you. and ask your doctor about biktarvy. biktarvy is a complete, one-pill, once-a-day treatment used for h-i-v in certain adults. it's not a cure, but with one small pill, biktarvy fights h-i-v to help you get to and stay undetectable. that's when the amount of virus is so low it cannot be measured by a lab test. research shows people who take h-i-v treatment every day
and get to and stay undetectable can no longer transmit h-i-v through sex. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects include a buildup of lactic acid and liver problems. do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your doctor about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b, do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your doctor. common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache. if you're living with hiv, keep loving who you are. and ask your doctor if biktarvy is right for you. (naj) at fisher investments, our clients know we if you're living with hiv, keep loving who you are. have their backs. (other money manager) how do your clients know that? (naj) because as a fiduciary, it's our responsibility to always put clients first. (other money manager) so you do it because you have to? (naj) no, we do it because it's the right thing to do. we help clients enjoy a comfortable retirement. (other money manager) sounds like a big responsibility. (naj) one that we don't take lightly. it's why our fees are structured so we do better when our clients do better.
fisher investments is clearly different.

this is from the emergency motion. quote, one patient got in her car at midnight in texas to drive through the night and make it to oklahoma in the morning for her abortion appointment. she had to turn around the same day to travel back it texas. in one day another patient drove 1,000 mile round trip alone because she didn't have paid time off work and couldn't afford to miss her shift. another patient facing violence at the hands of her husband is discreetly attempting to leave texas without her husband finding out and is desperate and selling personal items to scrape together the funds needed for an out of state abortion. it's been exactly 14 days since the law essentially banning all abortions in the state of texas has gone in effect. last week the u.s. justice department sued texas saying
it's a violation to the constitutional right to get an abortion no matter which of the 50 states you live in. file filing that lawsuit could result in a judge knocking down the texas abortion ban, the filing of that lawsuit does nothing in the short term to put the texas law on pause, to try to stop it while it's litigated in court. now that's changed. in an emergency motion filed shortly before midnight last night the justice department has now asked the judge in this case to temporarily block the enforcement of texas' abortion ban. not later at the end of the day when the lawsuit ultimately is resolved b now while the challenges to it are pending. and the doj's filing is filled with these stories about women who had to drive for hours and sell their stuff to try to get an abortion out of state now that it's illegal to get one in the state where they live. the judge tonight scheduled a hearing to decide whether he is going to act on this emergency motion to stop the texas ban to
let women in texas get abortions again. he is scheduled a hearing on this emergency motion for two and a half weeks from now. october 1st. no rush. ar 'cough cough sneeze sneeze' ♪ it's time for ♪ 'plop plop fizz fizz' ♪ alka seltzer plus cold relief, dissolves quickly... instantly ready to start working. so you can bounce back fast with alka-seltzer plus. this is a gamechanger, who dares to be fearless even when her bladder leaks. our softest, smoothest fabric keeping her comfortable, protected, and undeniably sleek. depend. the only thing stronger than us, is you. depend. ♪ ♪ ♪ hey google. ♪ ♪ ♪
♪ ♪ ♪ as someone who resembles someone else... i appreciate that liberty mutual knows everyone's unique. that's why they customize your car insurance, so you only pay for what you need. [ nautical horn blows ] i mean just because you look like someone else doesn't mean you eat off the floor, or yell at the vacuum, or need flea medication. oh, yeah. that's the spot. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty, liberty, liberty, liberty ♪ hi, i'm ron reagan, an unabashed atheist, and i'm alarmed, as you may be, by the intrusions of religion into our secular government. that's why i'm asking you to join the freedom from religion foundation, the nation's largest and most effective association of atheists and agnostics
working to keep state and church separate, just like our founders intended. please join the freedom from religion foundation today. ron reagan, lifelong atheist, not afraid of burning in hell. this is renae. never heard of her? it's probably because she's not an influencer. she's more of a groundbreaker. just look at the way she's reshaping and reimagining her 4 acre slice of heaven. it's not hard to tell she's the real deal. renae runs with us on a john deere 1 series tractor because out here you can't fake a job well done. nothing runs like a deere. hear renae's story at deere.com. ♪♪ energy is everywhere... even in a little seedling. which, when turned into fuel, can help power a plane. at chevron's el segundo refinery,
we're looking to turn plant-based oil into renewable gasoline, jet and diesel fuels. our planet offers countless sources of energy. but it's only human to find the ones that could power a better future. what i've learned from so many years . . . . . . of living with hiv is to enjoy every moment. my name is hugo and i'm on biktarvy. biktarvy is a complete, one-pill, once-a-day treatment . . . . . . used for hiv in certain adults. it's not a cure, but with one small pill, biktarvy fights hiv to help you get to . . . . . . and stay undetectable. that's when the amount of virus is so low, it cannot be measured by a lab test. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects include a build-up of lactic acid and liver problems. do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your doctor about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding . . . . . . or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b, do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your doctor.
common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache. if you're living with hiv . . . . . . keep loving who you are. and ask your doctor if biktarvy is right for you. night the justice department asked a federal judge to temporarily block the enforcement of texas' new law that essentially bans all abortions in the state. the judge has just said he will get around to deciding whether or not to grant that emergency motion two and a half weeks from now. that's when he will decide whether or not to be act on an emergency basis. meantime, the constitution remains suspended for texas women. joining us now is nancy nor up. thanks for being here tonight. >> thank you. and thank you so much,rachel, for beginning with those stories
from the motion, because it shows what is happening on the ground the last two weeks that the law has been in effect >> what do you think of the strength of the justice department's case against the texas ban, and what do you make of this new request for a restraining order, an injunction against enforcing the ban? it seems like the judge is, obviously, going to consider it, but on nobody's idea of a quick timeline. >> well, it's a very strong case that the department of justice has. they have directly sued texas for violating the constitutional rights of texans. >> this is a clear violation of the constitution. you cannot ban abortion at six weeks. we have as the department of justice papers made clear 48 years of unbroken precedent about the right of people to make these decisions for themselves. so it's a strong case and they filed their motion for preliminary injunction yesterday full of what's actually happened on the ground.
i mean, when all of us sued texas, you know, back earlier this year, it was before the law went into effect and we said these were going to be the effects if it happened. now the department of justice has the actual testimony about what has happened in the two weeks and they are just heartbreaking stories. it is disappointing that the judge is not going to hear this until the 1st of october because, as you pointed out, that is going to be a whole month that texans have been deprived of their constitutional rights. the harm on the ground is real and severe. >> i'm interested both legally and practically also from what we're learning in our reporting on this and talking to people in the field about how the material effects here are, obviously, happening to texas women seeking abortion and now can't get it because it's effectively outlawed in the state, and abortion providers, health care providers in not just neighboring states that abut texas but states one and two
tiers beyond that where there is this ripple effect happening starting with texas in the middle of the country, moving out to lots of other states where abortion clinics are filling up, where people are going further and further to get access to care, where that is affecting people's ability to access care even in the neighborhood ring states. it seems like it's having a knock-on immediate effect of significant consequence that might potentially bring other people into these sorts ever cases as plaintiffs. >> well, yes. what is clear in the papers that followed the department of justice, talking to colleagues in michigan, in new york, long distances, they are seeing patients from texas. testimony from the clinic in oklahoma that they now have delays of up to three weeks, which is not the ordinary case, because they are making room for the texans coming in. the rights of people in other states are being violated. access in other states is
getting harder because of this deprivation of rights in texas. but i want to note, there is a good development, which is next week, the house of representatives is going to vote on the women's health protection act. this is legislation which would address in texas, the mississippi case going to the supreme court. it's a huge and enormous step to have this vote in the house next week. >> nancy, thanks for being here. i appreciate it. >> thank you.   we have more ahead tonight. stay with us. he avmore ahead tt stay with us ♪ ♪ just two pills for all day pain relief. aleve it, and see what's possible.
centrum multigummies aren't just great tasting... they're power-packed vitamins... that help unleash your energy. loaded with b vitamins... ...and other key essential nutrients... ...it's a tasty way to conquer your day. try centrum multi gummies. now with a new look. with directv stream, i can get live tv and on demand... together. watch: serena williams... wonder woman. serena... wonder woman... serena... wonder woman... ♪ ♪ ace. advantage! you cannot be serious! ♪ ♪ get your tv together with the best of live and on demand. introducing directv stream with no annual contract.
i'm not getting through the pandemic just to end up with the flu. i asked for fluzone high-dose quadrivalent. it's the #1-used flu vaccine for people 65 and older. fluzone high-dose quadrivalent is the only vaccine approved by the fda for superior flu protection in adults 65+. i'm not letting my guard down. fluzone high-dose quadrivalent isn't for people who've had a severe allergic reaction to any flu vaccine or vaccine component, including eggs or egg products. tell your health care professional if you've ever experienced severe muscle weakness
after receiving a flu shot. people with weakened immune systems including those receiving therapies that suppress the immune system, may experience lower immune responses. vaccination may not protect everyone. side effects include pain, redness, and/or swelling where you got the shot, muscle ache, headache, and general discomfort. other side effects may occur. all flu shots are not the same. i raised my game with fluzone high-dose quadrivalent. ask your doctor or pharmacist for fluzone high-dose quadrivalent.
providence, alaska medical center is the largest hospital in alaska. this is a letter just released to the people of alaska from the medical staff. we're writing to you as the medical executive committee where an apolitical body of physicians that represents the physicians. each of us is a member of the alaskan community that live, work and play here. our children attend school here.
at this time we feel we have an ethical obligation to be transparent and share with the public the stressing reality of what is happening inside the walls of the hospital. our caregivers are doing their best as they have been for the past 18 months but while we're doing our utmost, we're unable to provide the standard of care to those who need our help. it's hard to staff caregivers. we've been forced to implement crisis standards of care. what does this mean? in short, we're faced with a situation we must prioritize scarce treatments to the patients that have the potential to benefit most and required to develop and enact policies and procedures to ration care and ventilators. people from around alaska depend on providence for people statewide. unfortunately, we're unable to meet this need. we don't have the staff, space or beds.
due to the scarcity we can't provide life saving care to everybody that needs it. the emergency room is overflowing and patients wait for hours to see a physician for emergency care. on a daily basis our transfer center is unable to accept patients that sit in emergency rooms and the current facility is unable to provide f. you need specialty care like a cardiologist, trama surgeon or neurosurgeon, we sadly may no have room now. there are no more staffed beds left. the letter goes on to encourage basically beg alaskaens to wear a mask and if you're exposed to get tested and stay home and get vaccinated and quote, lastly, avoid potentially dangerous activities and situations that may increase your risk for needing emergency services and hospital care. unfortunately, if you're seriously injured it's possible there won't be a bed available in our drama center to save your life signed by the chief of staff on the medical executive
committee at providence alaska medical center, again, the largest hospital in alaska. joining us, thank you for taking the time to be with us tonight. thanks for letting us feature this scary situation happening at your hospital. i imagine this is a traumatic time. >> it's quite traumatic. we're really struggling at our hospital and our physicians felt the need to reach out and really implore the community to do their part and get vaccinated and take really good care of themselves so we can continue to take care of patients. >> when i describe providence alaska medical center as the largest hospital in the state and as a key resource in the state, can you explain more what that means? obviously, alaska is unique in terms of its geography and spread. is providence the kind of hospital that people come to
from all over the state, not only because of they might live somewhere where there isn't a major hospital but if they live somewhere where there is a hospital, it might not have the resources providence has? >> exactly. we're the largest hospital in the state. we accept transfers from small communities and our critical access hospitals that are out in small, a little bit larger communities like billing ham. patients who get sick out there and have a cardiology need, if they need a cardiology catheterization or cabbage, any of those surgeries, if they have a stroke and need specialized neuro logic care, those people are waiting in the communities and are being held in the e.r.s where they are living in order to wait for a bed to come into providence. >> and once people get to providence, it just took me a back to read the description
reported in the "new york times" today described in your letter of people being told to wait in their cars even when they come for emergency care at providence, if they can physically get to providence, to our center and they need to get in the emergency room, people are sometimes waiting in their cars for hours even before they can be seen in the e.r. that just seems untenable. it seems so unlike what you must be used to providing in terms of modern medicine. >> exactly. none of us signed up and thought we would be practicing these conditions and we do have a, you know, we have an incredible staff. our e.r. physicians are working as hard as they can and nurses are doing everything they can. yesterday we had ten patients in beds in the e.r. that were waiting admission. three of them were icu level care and didn't have an icu bed. we didn't have beds for those
patients. meanwhile, while they're there, the other patients are waiting in the waiting room and cars to be seen. >> in their cars. just remarkable. the chief of staff at alaska medical center, such a difficult time. thank you for helping us understand tonight. please keep us apprised. we'd love to have you back if there is response from people of alaska, we'd love to spread the word and talk about it. thank you. >> thank you. >> we'll be right back. stay with us. ou. >> we'll be right back stay wh itus there's no other snack like a planters cashew. what else can go from your car's cup holder to a crystal bowl and seem equally at home? i guess the most well-rounded snack isn't round at all. it's more cashew-shaped. planters. a nut above.
tums vs. mozzarella stick it's more cashew-shaped. when heartburn hits, fight back fast with tums chewy bites. fast heartburn relief in every bite. crunchy outside, chewy inside. ♪ tums, tums, tums, tums ♪ tums chewy bites why bother mastering something? why hand-tune an audio system? why include the most advanced active safety system in its class...standard? because when you want to create an entirely new feeling, the difference between excellence and mastery is all the difference in the world. the lexus es. every curve, every innovation, every feeling... a product of mastery. get 1.9% apr financing on the 2021 es 350. experience amazing at your lexus dealer. >> tech: every customer has their own safelite story. get 1.9% apr financing on the 2021 es 350. this couple was on a camping trip...
...when their windshield got a chip. they drove to safelite for a same-day repair. and with their insurance, it was no cost to them. >> woman: really? >> tech: that's service you can trust. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ like you, my hands are everything to me. but i was diagnosed with dupuytren's contracture. and it got to the point where things i took for granted got tougher to do. thought surgery was my only option. turns out i was wrong. so when a hand specialist told me about nonsurgical treatments, it was a total game changer. like you, my hands have a lot more to do. learn more at factsonhand.com today. introducing xfinity rewards. like you, my hands have a lot more to do. our very own way of thanking you just for being with us.
enjoy rewards like movie night specials. xfinity mobile benefits. ...and exclusive experiences, like the chance to win tickets to see watch what happens live. hey! it's me. the longer you've been with us... the more rewards you can get. like sharpening your cooking skills with a top chef. join for free on the xfinity app and watch all the rewards float in. our thanks. your rewards.   all right that is going to do it for us tonight. we'll see you tomorrow and what's tomorrow? tomorrow is friday eve. that's right. now it's time for "the last word with lawrence o'donnell". >> good evening. new york's governor kathy hochul will join us tonight. i know kathy hochul but i don't as i might if we didn't spend