one another, we create a society that is good enough for all of our children and ensures that our economy prosper and that the people can thrive, that the people's voices can be heard and we move closer to our ideals. >> senator raphael warnock, thank you so much for joining us this evening. >> thank you.   that is "all in" on this tuesday night. therachelmaddowshowstarts. >> thank you, my friend. and thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. shomari stone is a reporter for the nbc station in washington, d.c.. nbc news 4. mr. stone shot this footage today as the country learned all at once all together what the verdict would be. >> oh, thank god! >> how are you all feeling right
now? >> woo! >> huh? >> numb. like you still feel sadness about it all, like, that we're here. >> what about you, ma'am, i see you have tears in your eyes right now. >> feel so relieved. i feel relieved. i don't see how it could have been otherwise. >> reporter: as an african american woman, what's going through your mind? >> an african american woman, i am glad that i have lived to see this in my lifetime. i never thought i would live to see it. and i am 91 years old. >> i am 91 years old. i don't see how it could have been otherwise, but i know it could have been otherwise. that was in washington, d.c., today. this was in minneapolis at the site where george floyd was killed last year by police officer derek chauvin. the gentleman you see here has just heard the verdict and he is leading a chant of george
floyd's name until he can't anymore. >> george floyd! >> george floyd! >> george floyd! >> today in minneapolis this is another scene from that same site at that same time, the place where mr. george floyd died last year. this is the moment when the verdict was reached. you will see people here learning it in real time. >> verdict count one, we, the jury, in the above-entitled manner manner as to count one unintentional second-degree murder while committing a felony
find the defendant guilty. [ cheers and applause ] >> after the verdict was read not just on that first count, but all three counts, guilty on all three counts, what transpired in the courtroom went quickly. the prosecution asked for former minneapolis police officer derek chauvin to be remanded into custody while he awaits sentencing. the judge instantly agreed to that. mr. chauvin then stood, put his hands behind his back. he was handcuffed and he was led away to custody. it is expected that he may appeal, but for now he is jailed awaiting his sentence. the sentencing guidelines suggest the sentence could be considerably more than ten years in prison. mr. chauvin's sentencing will be in roughly eight weeks. we shall see. it was not at all a certainty this would go this way.
the reason the country was holding its collective breath today waiting for this verdict like perhaps nothing since the o.j. simpson trial all those years ago, the reason the country was on eggshells today waiting for this verdict, the reason the anticipation was so thick you could cut it with a knife, was because even after that trial we all just saw, even after that blunt and overwhelming evidence, i mean, in this country how could you know it would turn out this way? like that 91-year-old come woman said this d.c. through tears of relief, i don't see how it could have been otherwise, but i do know it could have been otherwise. we actually know from the public record that in the normal course of events, had there not been a very significant intervention by some everyday random civilian americans, it's not just that it's unlikely that it turned out the way it did today. it really wouldn't have turned out this way barring that
intervention by those by standing americans. and we know that. we know that it wasn't going to go this way in the normal course of events from the initial public statement that the minneapolis police department released to the public after george floyd died. this was their statement to the public about what happened to george floyd on that curb outside the cup foods in minneapolis last may. look at the headline. man dies after medical incident during police interaction. is that what you call it? may 25, 2021, minneapolis. on monday evening after 8:00 p.m. officers responded to 3700 block of chicago avenue south. he was ordered to step from his car after he got out he physically resisted officers. officers were able to get the suspect into handcuffs and noted he appeared to be suffering medical distress. officers called for an ambulance. the man was transported to hennepin county medical center by ambulance where he died a short time later.
no time weapons were involved by anyone in this incident. that's what was that released at the time. nothing to see here, no guns drawn, nobody got shot. this guy had an unfortunate incident. it's a weird coincidence. he was being questioned by police and he died. he died at the hospital after the police were very kind to note that he appeared to be having a medical incident so they called the police. clearly the medical distress had nothing to do with them. he died later. we just wanted to let you know. that was going to be the official version of what happened. man dies after medical incident during police interaction. that was going to be the public record of this incident. except for the fact that there were witnesses who saw it, who confronted the police whale it was happening, who filmed what happened for real, who posted those videos of what happened for real, and who then ultimately agreed to testify as to what they saw.
that is the reason that ultimately this prosecution was able to happen at all. that is the reason that the prosecution could make this closing -- the closing argument they made to the jury in which they simply asked the jury, what did you see? >> why is it necessary to continue applying deadly restraint to a man who is defenseless, who is handcuffed, who is not resisting, who is not breathing, who doesn't have a pulse, and to go on and do that for three plus minutes before the ambulance shows up and then to continue doing it? how is that a reasonable exercise in the use of force? >> that closing argument could only be made to the jury. how is it a reasonable use of force? how is it a reasonable use of force? to apply deadly restraint to a
man defenseless, handcuffed, not resisting, not breathing, doesn't have a pulse, after the ambulance shows up they keep cog that another three minutes. then they continue doing it. how is that reasonable exercise in the use of force? they could only put that to the jury because of the public record of what actually happened, because the witnesses who saw what happened who had the presence of mind to tape it and had the courage to testify about it in open court. the young woman who shot the now world-known footage, the footage seen the world over of mr. floyd being killed by that police officer, you may remember her testimony at trial. she shot that video last year when she was 17 years old. never the. >> she agreed to testify in open court at the trial. she went in regret she hadn't done even more. >> it's been night i stayed up
apologizing and apologizing to george floyd for not doing more and not physically interacting and not saving his life. >> darnella frazier, age 17 in she shot the video that basically led to this all counts conviction of this police officer today. that was her testimony at trial. today on facebook she said this. after the verdict was read, she said, thank you god. thank you, thank you, thank you. young miss frazier and the other bystanders who tried to intervene, who pressed record on their cellphones, who testified about what they saw, the attorney general who brought the case, the clergy, the president of the united states all today credited those witnesses and thanked them. >> the people who stopped and
raised their voices on may 25th, 2021, old, young, men and women, black and white, a man from the neighborhood just walking to get a drink, a child going to buy a snack with her cousin, an off dut fi firefighter on her way to a community garden, brave young women, teenagers, who pressed record on their cellphones. why did they stop? they didn't know george floyd. they didn't know he had a beautiful family. they didn't know he had been a great athlete and they didn't know he was a proud father or that he had people in his life who loved him. they stopped and raised their voices and they even challenged authority because they saw his humanity. they stopped and they raised their voices because they knew that what they were seeing was
wrong. they didn't need to be medical professionals or experts in the use of force. they knew it was wrong. and they were right. they performed simple, yet profound, acts of courage. they told the truth and they told the whole world the truth about what they saw. >> such a verdict is also much too rare for so many people. seems like it took a unique and extraordinary convergence of factors. a brave young woman with a smartphone camera. a crowd that was traumatized. traumatized witnesses. a murder that lasts almost ten minutes in broad daylight for the whole world to see. officers standing up and testifying against a fellow officer instead of just closing ranks.
they should be commended. we saw how traumatic and exhausting just watching the trial was for so many people. think about it. think about how traumatic it was for you. you weren't there. you didn't know any of the people. but it was difficult. especially for the witnesses who had to re-live that day. it's a trauma. as we saw in this trial from the fellow police officers who testified, most men and women who wear the badge serve their communities honorably. but those few who fail to meet that standard must be held accountable, and they were today. one was. no one should be above the law. and today's verdict sends that message. but it's not enough. we can't stop here. in order to deliver real change and reform, we can and we must do more to reduce the likelihood
that tragedies like this will happen or occur again. >> president biden speaking today from the white house in response to the guilty on all counts jury verdict in the police killing of george floyd in minnesota last year. the president went on to call for the passage of the george floyd justice in policing act as did vice president harris who spoke today. she was a co-author of that criminal justice reform bill in the senate. she spoke about that tonight. we will speak tonight with the lead author of that bill, talk about its prospects for passage, especially with the renewed energy to try to enact it. but here we are. there was a conviction. and also the near universal knowledge that it had to be this blatant, this severe, this, as the president said, a near ten-minute-long murder on tape for there to be any hope of conviction. and even still then no one was
sure. today when the verdict had been read, president biden called the floyd family directly. he referenced fact that george floyd's 7-year-old daughter gianna told him before her dad's funeral last year that her dad was going to change the world. >> hello? hello? hi. >> he is about to change it now. joining us now is minnesota public radio reporter brent williams, who has been covering the trial from minneapolis. mr. williams, it's nice to see
you, thanks for being here tonight. >> thanks for having me back. >> this is a big national moment. i don't think there has been as much anticipation for a jury verdict in the last 20 years. and i'm -- i personally feel like i am not quite sure what to make of it. it may that the importance of this moment isn't clear until it's in history and we see what hams as a result of this. as somebody who saw this close up, both in the trial, in the courtroom, and from minneapolis covering this case from the beginning, what is your take on the jury's verdict today? >> so, i think the outpouring of emotion that we have been seeing from george floyd square and from downtown minneapolis outside the courthouse has been a long time coming. there has been people that are very aware now. there have been several very
also high-profile police killings of black men in the past that have not resulted in criminal charges, at least in and the very most convictions. so what you are seeing is a lot of this built-up frustration and pain and emotion that people were releasing today. now, i was taking a walk through -- by the courthouse minutes after the verdicts were read. i was seeing that same reaction. i was also seeing people saying things like, well, we need to get one more conviction, and they were calling about the killing of daunte white in brooklyn center. people are not going to take this as being an end of the story. this is just the beginning of many of them. and for many of them, and momentum going forward in efforts to stop this type of thing from happening again. >> on the point of that moment,
i was struck today to see long cogent, i thought very well argued remarks from the minnesota attorney general keith ellison and to hear echos of his comments from vice president harris and further echos in the comments from president biden, all directly trying to say that the momentum and the emotion and the feeling and the sense of possibility that people may feel because of this verdict should be channelled into a national policing reform bill that's pending before the senate right now, the george floyd justice in policing act that, this is what those elected political leaders are trying to say is the right next thing to do. seeing that from those high-level elected officials is one thing. do you sense that there is momentum to support something like that among people on the ground who have been engaged in so much activism and also in the
midst of this maelstrom around this case? >> yeah, there has been a push, local city officials, to bring about not just reforms to the police department, but to abolish -- not abolish, dismantle the police department, replace it with a public safety agency that would include people who are not armed, not sworn police officers to respond to certain types of events. there was just last week a councilmember proposed having a traffic enforcement division that would not be armed police officers to address the types of traffic stops that we saw that resulted in the fatal shooting of daunte white. so there have been ideas going forward in minneapolis brought about by councilmembers but they have been restrict the by the city charter that needs to be changed in order for these things to happen, restricted by
state law which restricts particularly when it comes to civilian review authorities, that there is a law that restricts the subpoena power of the civilian review authorities that local officials have been trying to get back. so it's going to take different levels for people who are really trying to get some actual changes, it's going to take reforms that are going to happen at the city level, state level, and, as you mentioned, some federal legislation as well. >> minnesota public radio reporter brent williams, thank you for your time. thank you for your help over the duration of the trial in terms of contextlizing it and understanding the case. thank you. >> you're welcome. >> today's verdict does offer a measure of relief for george floyd's family. we know because they have said so today. but it is also bittersweet for some who have a very acute personal sense of what the floyd
family lost. like the women who have been called the mothers of the movement. women whose children have been killed by police officers or gun violence. women like sybrina fulton, leslie mcfadden. last week a few of them gathered to speak out and embrace katy wright, the mother of daunte white who was shot and killed by a police officer during a traffic stop in minneapolis a couple of weeks ac. one of those mothers offered these words of comfort from one grieving mer to another. >> you are not in this alone. we are here. we are here for you. as these mothers reached out to you, i reach out to you. i embrace you. i empower you. i hold you in my heart because i know what it is you're going through. you don't know which way to turn. you don't know who to listen to. but pray. pray to god. he will guide your footsteps. >> amen. >> in my son's case, i didn't
get a case in court. only a departmental trial. i fight so hard. i don't only fight for my child. i fight for everyone's child because -- [ applause ] >> that could be any one of yours any day. >> gwen carr the mother of eric garner, killed in 2014 when a new york city police officer put him in a chokehold while arresting him on the suspicion he was committing the grave crime of selling a loose cigarette. eric garner's dying words, i can't breathe, have become a rallying cry amid protests against police brutality against his death. for justice and accountability in mr. garner's case, a grand jury decided there was no probable cause to indict the officer who killed him. his mother got a departmental trial, essentially the officer faced a disciplinary hearing
five years later that did end with his firing from the police force. but that was it. joining us now is gwen carr, eric garner's mother, who put herself out to support women around the country who have gone through similar tragedies. thank you so much for being here tonight. it's an honor to have some of your time. >> thank you for having me. >> i just wanted to know your reaction to the verdict in the chauvin trial. you put yourself out there to try to support daunte white's mother when he was killed a couple weeks ago in minneapolis nearby where this trial was held. there has been so much emotion and so much anticipation and worry in this country about this verdict. what is your reaction to it today? >> yes. it's so much tragedy that's going on. one thing after another. and today just to hear that they
were going to do the right thing to charge this police officer with the -- for the crime he committed, i was elated. i mean, tiers came to my eyes when the verdict came down. you said finally we get a glimmer of justice. that just doesn't happen. it didn't happen in may case. it didn't happen in sean bell's case and michael brown or -- none of our cases, you know. and it was like the evidence was there and with my son, it was a video just like in george floyd's case, but they decided not to indict, adding indult to injury, they drug their feet for five years before the doj said they weren't going any further. but we have to go further. as mothers, as families, we are going to go further.
and that's the only way that they are we are going to push them to do the right thing. that's the only way i got a departmental trial. >> miss carr, what gives you the power, the strength, the energy to reach out to other families, other mothers, who have gone through tragedies similar to what you have gone through with losing your son? i cannot imagine the toll that it has taken on you and your family. but to be able to endure that toll and then put yourself out there at your own expense and your own -- cost of your own energy and cost of living, all that trauma to support other women in similar circumstances when their grief is so raw, how do you have the strength to do it? >> well, first of all, i have to pray a lot. you have to pray before you got out here on this journey. fords and second of all, when
you can make another mother a little more comfortable after she has lost her child with just embracing her or trying to listen to her story or trying to talk about her child in a positive way, it's a form of therapy. if you could just help one mother, which i try to help many mothers, but sometimes when the mother is not where you are, they are like bedridden, hospitalized, taken heavy medication, and some are even attempting to commit suicide. and if you could just talk these mothers down, if you could just say, like an enlightening word to them, and they listen and they could come back to you and say, what you said to me really helped me, you know, that's therapy. and it makes you feel better about yourself and it makes you
feel like you are doing something for the country, doing something for the other mothers and you are doing something for yourself in helping your child's name get recognized. >> i am so sorry that that chain of empathy has to exist in our country. and that it never stops. and it seems like we can't get a break in the momentum of it. but your willingness to pass that forward in that way and to offer the kind of support that nobody who hasn't been through it can offer somebody else who is in those circumstances newly, it is a deep thing that you are doing for the country. gwen carr, the mother of eric garner, thank you for being here. >> thank you for having me. >> all right. we to have much more to get to tonight. in just a moment we will hear from what george floyd's family, in terms of their reaction. we will speak with somebody who has been working with them the last year. we will look ahead to the
funeral of daunte white, which is happening just two days from now. we will be talking about yet another police-involved shooting, apparently resulting in a fatality of a young african american teenage girl this evening, even as the verdict was being absorbed nationwide. like i said, it does not stop. but we have much more ahead tonight. stay with us. in our happiest times and darkest days. millions of immigrants have america's back. so as we build back better, let's make sure the recovery leaves no one behind by including everyone, with a pathway to citizenship for essential workers, temporary protected status holders, and dreamers, and a humane immigration system. because being essential to america should mean we are essential in america. where can a healthier heart lead you? for people with heart failure taking entresto, it may lead to a world of possibilities. entresto is now approved
for more patients with chronic heart failure. don't take entresto if pregnant; it can cause harm or death to an unborn baby. don't take entresto with an ace inhibitor or aliskiren, or if you've had angioedema with an ace or arb. the most serious side effects are angioedema, low blood pressure kidney problems, or high blood potassium. ask your doctor about prescription entresto.
tonight... i'll be eating roasted cauliflower tacos with spicy chipotle sauce. [doorbell chimes] thank you. [puck scores] oooow yeah!! i wasn't ready! you want cheese to go with that whine??

giving us the strength to stand together. sometimes we would question each other. sometimes we would say this is just going to be a waste of time. but somehow you touch news the midnight hours and teach us to hold on and that if we would be faithful over few things, you would give us the victory over many. we thank you because we know it was not any doing of ours, but your loving kindness and your tender mercy. it made tonight possible. bless those that worked, that made this prosecution something they couldn't deny. bless those policemen that got on the stand and testified against her policeman. bless the jury that listened to the evidence and didn't listen to those that may criticize them for doing this. >> i feel relieved today that i
finally have the opportunity to, to hopefully get some sleep. a lot of days that i prayed and i hoped and i was speaking everything into existence. i said, i have faith that he will be convicted. [ applause ] >> ten miles away from here, mr. wright, daunte white, he should still be here. we have to always understand that we have to march. we will have to do this for life. we have to protest because it seems like this is a never-ending cycle. >> that is george floyd's brother philonise floyd speaking today after the verdicts were read with our friend the reverend al sharpton. you heard mr. floyd reference daunte white. 20 years old, shot and killed by
police during a traffic stop in a minneapolis suburb a little over a week ago. reverend al sharpton is scheduled to the give the eulogy at the funeral in minnesota the day after tomorrow. joining us is the reverend al sharpton, the host of "politicsnation" here on msnbc. so good to see you, my friend. first of all, how are you after this emotional day? how is mr. floyd's family? i know you were with them today for this. >> well, i'm feeling very good for them, but challenged to make sure that we turn this moment into a real change in terms of policy and law. i did the eulogy at both of george's funerals i i'm doing daune's. we kept going and marching and then we saw groups rise up on their own all over the world.
i think today we won a round, but the fight is not over. we must pass the george floyd federal bill so we will not have to do it state by state. there is a win in minnesota tonight, but the law hasn't changed. and floss federal law. and if we ought to really have change, we must change the laws of policing. not anti-police. the policemen that testified at this trial showed that policemen understand that bad police must be subject to the law, not above the law. >> what do you think the prospects are for passing that law? i was struck today to hear you talk about the george floyd justice in policing act, to hear attorney general ellison, in minnesota, talk about it in his remarks, vice president harris from the white house talk about not only her support for that law but its necessity and the fact she had a hand in writing it. the president himself jumping
with both feet hard saying that needs to happen, that that must pass. to take all this emotion in this what feels like momentum, what feels like a moment today in this country, and to push hard, that that is the right next step, made me feel different about the prospect of that passing today than i did before. i know you are a student of politics as much as you are of anything else. do you feel like the political reality is that it could pass? >> i do, because i think reality has to adjust to new realities. there is a new reality tonight. people feel that this can happen and people are going to, in my opinion, continue now to pressure the senate. i remember you said i am a student. when i was a kid just joining the movement in the north, people didn't feel you could get a voting rights act. president lyndon johnson told dr. martin luther king jr. that we just got the civil rights act, we can't go back to the senate and the congress and get
the voting rights act, and dr. king told us we would have to go back south and march and make it possible for it to happen, and it did. the next year the '65 voting rights act. when you have a movement of all kinds of people, intergenerational, interracial, it changes the political climate that the senate and others have to operate. and that climate changed. i remember last august martin luther king iii and i called a march around the george floyd bill and john lewis bill in washington in the middle of the pandemic, the height of the pandemic. over 200,000 people came and a third of them white. and when we saw that crowd, when we saw the makeup of that crowd, intergenerational, interracial, and it was happening all over the world, we knew the possibility was there like it was in the 60s a generation ahead of us to make change. if it's not legislative change, it will only be temporary.
>> reverend al sharpton. thank you so much for being with us today. i know it has been a long, emotional, tense day. thanks for being with us here. i appreciate it. >> thank you. >> all right. congresswoman karen bass is going to be joining us next. we will take a quick break. we have been talking about the george floyd justice in policing act, which everybody involved at every level of this fight and of this case is talking about as the thing that might make a real difference nationwide in terms of policing, criminal justice reform, the kinds of reforms that might prevent this from happening again, slow the tide of these kilgts. karen bass is the spoenser of that legislation. she joins us live next. spoenser that legislation she joins us live next lings. karen bass is the spoenser of that legislation. she joins us live next. the spoe that legislation she joins us live next
it doesn't happen often. everyday people taking on the corporate special interests. and winning. but now, the for the people act stands on the brink of becoming law. ensuring accurate elections. iron-clad ethics rules to crack down on political self-dealing. a ban on dark money. and finally reducing corporate money in our politics. to restore our faith in government. because it's time. for the people to win. we need to reduce plastic waste in the environment. that's why at america's beverage companies, our bottles are made to be re-made. not all plastic is the same. we're carefully designing our bottles to be one hundred percent recyclable, including the caps. they're collected and separated from other plastics, so they can be turned back into material that we use to
make new bottles. that completes the circle, and reduces plastic waste. please help us get every bottle back.
cranky-pated: a bad mood related to a sluggish gut. th miralax is different.e, and reduces plastic waste. it works naturally with the water in your body to unblock your gut. free your gut, and your mood will follow. ♪ freshness and softness you never forget, with downy. ♪ ♪ ♪ when it comes to your financial health, just a few small steps can make a real difference. ♪ ♪ ♪
learn, save and spend with guidance from chase. confidence feels good. chase. make more of what's yours. cyber attacks are relentlessly advancing. to end them, cybereason built a cyber security solution so advanced... it can end attacks today -- on computers, mobile devices, servers and the cloud. and deliver future-ready protection, keeping you sharp for tomorrow. join us, the defenders, in our mission. cybereason. end cyber attacks. from endpoints to everywhere. people of color in this country is a story that largely gets told in terms of the individual
lives lost, the police officers involved, the court cases that have or haven't been brought against them. but even though this story is told case by case, police killing by police killing, the national movement that has risen up around this has inspired some federal lawmakers to try to address this systemically on a national level. there is a bill pending in the senate that would dramatically change how policing happens all over the country. it's a bill called the george floyd justice in policing act. and it passed the house in march on a mostly party line vote, because one republican did vote for it, though he later said he only voted for it by accident. inspiring. the bill, among other things, would require body cams, ban military equipment for police use, it would ban no-knock warrants, it would end the kinds of special legal protections that police officers have used in court to avoid accountability for excessive use of force and a lot more. like i said, this bill has already passed out of the house.
the lead house sponsor of this bill, congresswoman karen bass of california, is now working with democratic senator cory booker and republican senator tim scott to try to pass that bill in the senate. and today more than any other time in the past, it feels like there may be momentum to actually do this. joining us now, congresswoman karen bass, former chair of the congressional black caucus, the lead sponsor of the george floyd george floyd. congresswoman bass, a pleasure to see you. thanks for making time tonight. >> thank you. >> let me just ask you about the verdict today and how much focus turned very quickly towards your bill being the next potential step that we could take nationwide to make a real change. a lot of people talking about that today. state level leaders, faith leaders, members of the floyd
family, national leaders saying this is the thing that we could do to really make a difference. >> well, absolutely, because we see case after case, and then there is word that another case happened today. so, clearly, we have to do something to transform policing in the united states. i have been watching this and have been involved in this issue for decades, and it's terrible that it took the world witnessing the torture and murder of an individual to bring about this type of change. but i do feel like we're on the cusp of doing that. so i am hopeful today. i don't know what i would have done if the verdict turned out wrong, but it didn't. i hope we can get over the finish line and put a bill on president biden's desk. >> i want to ask about the focus in the bill. the bill has a lot of different components. there is a focus on police officers getting training around
things like implicit bias. one of the things that i found just disheartening about watching the chauvin trial was the focus over the course of the trial on just how much training he had had, how many hundreds of hours of training that he had had, and of course that played a role in the decision by the jury to decide whether or not he was following his training when he killed mr. floyd. but i wonder if there is -- if there is reason to feel hopeful that some sort of different focus in training, some sort of national standards in training could make a difference in real life and not just on paper. >> well, i mean, i think it has to you. you also have to take into consideration what is the type of training he received? i mean, the woman that killed daunte white had been on the service, on the force for tv years. don't you know the difference between a taser and a gun? so, you know, i would raise a question as to what is the type and quality of training.
you raised a key issue. there are no national standards. we have 18,000 police departments around the country. no national standards. that's why chokeholds is okay one place, another place it is, no-knock warrants are okay. you need standardized accreditation and testing for officers. we want policing to be like most other professions that have national standards, that have accountability. and it so when we looked at derek chauvin look at the camera when he was torturing george floyd, he didn't it with complete impunity because he didn't think anything was going to happen. we need to take that away, which is why qualified immunity is important and why we have to lower the standards to prosecute officers so we won't see case after case that aren't even prosecuted. >> congressman bass, in the senate there is this reconciliation, budget reconciliation process that allows for some legislation to
get around filibuster from the republican minority in the senate if something is perceived as having -- perceived by the parliamentarian to have had a budget consequence, it can be passed through reconciliation. if there won't be 60 votes, the democrats could pass some of this legislation by that reconciliation process. i am thinking specifically about the provision in your bill that would ban the transfer of military equipment to police departments around the country. are you thinking about some of those strategic factors in terms of how this might be able to pass in the senate? >> well, no. what we're trying to do is to come to a bipartisan agreement. i don't know if you could pull out a section of the bill and see if you could do it through budget reconciliation. we haven't considered that. we have been having bipartisan discussions. you noted the two leads in the senate, tim scott and cory booker, and so we do believe that we can reach a point where we will get 60 votes in the senate.
>> congresswoman karen bass of california, lead sponsor of the george floyd george floyd, which has already passed the house. thank you for your time tonight. >> thank you. >> we have much more ahead tonight. stay with us. re ahead tonight. stay with us
♪♪ [sfx: revving trucks] pilot over radio: here we go, let's do this. ♪♪ pilot over radio: right there, right there. [sfx: revving trucks] pilot over radio: g complete. how do you introduce the larger-than-life gmc yukon? with the world's biggest tweet. the next generation gmc yukon. premium that's made to be used. tonight... ti'll be eating chicken tikka. masala with garlic naan. [doorbell chimes] cheers. i win again, patrick. that's siiir patrick. oooooow. sir.
this is the sound of an asthma attack... that doesn't happen. this is the sound of better breathing. fasenra is a different kind of asthma medication. it's not a steroid or inhaler. fasenra is an add-on treatment for asthma driven by eosinophils. it's one maintenance dose every 8 weeks. it helps prevent asthma attacks, improve breathing, and lower use of oral steroids. nearly 7 out of 10 adults with asthma may have elevated eosinophils. fasenra is designed to target and remove them. fasenra is not a rescue medication or for other eosinophilic conditions. fasenra may cause allergic reactions. get help right away if you have swelling of your face, mouth, and tongue, or trouble breathing. don't stop your asthma treatments unless your doctor tells you to. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection or your asthma worsens. headache and sore throat may occur. this is the sound of fasenra. ask your doctor about fasenra. if you can't afford your medication, astrazeneca may be able to help.
our kids are bad at hiding things. but we found out their clothes hide a lot. which concerned us, especially with their sensitive skin. that's why we always look for new tide hygienic clean free. it removes the visible and invisible dirt. it's got to be tide hygienic clean free. [sfx: psst psst] allergies don't have to be scary. spraying flonase daily stops your body from overreacting to allergens all season long. psst! psst! all good cell phone repair. did you know liberty mutual customizes your car insurance so you only pay for what you need? just get a quote at libertymutual.com. really? i'll check that out. oh yeah. i think i might get a quote.
not again! aah, come on rice. do your thing. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪   the history of this era is written, it will be written up as an era of protests and demonstrations, some of the largest in american's history sparked more than anything else by the death of george floyd. his death today resulted in a three guilty verdicts for the officer charged with mr. floyd's death. for the better part of a year now since floyd was killed, we have been on again and off again rolling state of protests nationwide and worldwide. protests against his killing as far away as europe and latin
america and the middle east. the epicenter was george floyd was killed and now convicted by derek chauvin. one key figure from the protest was a not expected one, a 6'8" royce white. his activism started after floyd's death. he sent texts to a group of high-profile athletes. his own professional players, he told them it is time to get involved with the struggle, enough is enough. mr. white called on them to attend a march and they made a striking vanguard at that march. that group of 30 quickly turned into hundreds and ultimately turned into thousands. the first march they marched into the u.s. banks stadium and over the mississippi river.
joining us now is activist former nba player royce white. it is a real pleasure to have you with us, thank you so much for being here on this night. >> thank you for having me. >> just tell me about where you were when you learned about the verdict today and the reaction to the jury's findings? >> my son was sick the past few days. i was forced to be in the hospital. we have been watching this crowd with great interests and hearts with george floyd and his family. we hope today's verdict gives them some peace.
>> we have been watching all night live coverage and outside the cup foods store where mr. floyd was killed. a yearlong vigil there for him demanding justice. how do you think the verdict will be received overall in minneapolis. what do you see for your city and for minnesota given all of the pain and the trauma of that case, that killing and now ongoing other cases of similar police violence that are sort of tearing the community hearts. >> i can't speak for what will happen. the pressure should continue obviously. we have talked about the bigger picture often and the first march there you mentioned, the defense tried to do a great job laying out how monopoly on violence that the state has as far as policy goes, they made
huge emphasis of how police are trained and the wording and the dialogue and the monopoly on violence that the state has, we have to continue to push back against that tyranny. >> what do you think the impact of the protest was in terms of the way this case was perceived nationwide and the issue of accountability. >> well, i think there was two bricks, the city was so emotional and angry that fire broke out. and all protests respond to the nationwide and global narrative against violent protests. the people view america as a corporation and they view the police department as corporate assets and they also feel and believe that the value of human life is no longer equal to those corporate assets which is why
people gathered and reacted the way they do. our protests at the 35-w bridge despite the semistruck charged on the bridge and could potentially hurt citizens and thank god none were hurt. it made a bold statement that at the end of the day, we have to be prepared to respond to tyranny in a dramatic fashion. >> royce white. activist, former nba player, minnesota native, thank you for taking the time to talk with us tonight. it is a pleasure to have you, sir. >> thank you,rachel. >> we'll be right back. stay with us. chel >> we'll be right back stay with us the visionary lexus nx. lease the 2021 nx 300 for $349 a month for 36 months. experience amazing at your lexus dealer. ♪ and i will lend a hand to you ♪ lease the 2021 nx 300 for $349 a month for 36 months. ♪ would you lend a hand to me? ♪ ♪ everybody ♪ ♪ deserves to be free ♪


we have been looking at live images of people in the streets tonight and people at the courthouse where the verdict was read for the derek chauvin's trial and especially right now at the site where george floyd was killed in minneapolis last year. as i said substantial numbers of people gathering entirely peaceful and people reacting to those three guilty verdicts on three counts against officer derek chauvin, that's going to do it for me. now it is time for "the last word" with lawrence o'donnel. >> good evening, lawrence. >> there is no drama in the world quite like the return of the verdict. the suspense is always total. there is no polling or