the southern states and delta recedes quickly as it came. paul krugman, thanks for the time. >> thanks for having me on. >> that is "all in" and "therachelmaddowshow" starts now with ali. >> a man in virginia named travis campbell has been in the hospital more than a week because of complications from covid-19. he was unvaccinated, so were his wife and their children, all caught the virus in july. wife explained to nbc quote, we thought we were invincible, weren't going to get it. now he's in icu struggling to breathe and has urgent warning for anyone who like him has not gotten the covid vaccine. >> the delta strain is something
else. i would ask you if you thought that you had to sit down and plan your goodbyes and funeral, or go get the covid vaccine, what -- what would you do? i'd hope to god that all my friends and family would not say somebody hand me a piece of paper and a pen. that's a sobering thought of which i have done. i have planned.
last night my wife and i had to make a decision if i was going to allow them to put me on a ventilator. worst-case scenario. and i don't want to be on one. but i want to live. >> i want to live. as far as how his family is doing, gave this update on facebook. my whole family has covid, i truly regret not getting the vaccine. testifying to all my bulletproof friends holding out. it's not worth long-term lung damage or death, please get the vaccine. i hear my kids can the rattle lung cough, they're so dizzy they're getting sick or they or
i are dehydrated from diarrhea, i realize i could have prevented this. i'm over the stupid conspiracies, it's time to be rational and protective. don't be stubborn like i did. >> that's the common narrative in pockets of the country dealing with worst outbreaks. ten states with highest cases are now highest first shots administered. that's the trend. overall the average pace of vaccines is rising again. look at bottom right of your screen. people are scared. without full protection from the vaccine, they've got good reason to be. according to data kept by johns hopkins university just crossed 200 million cases across the globe. with delta variant dominating, the number keeps rising. cdc reports that delta variant accounts for more than 93% of
infections in u.s., as high as 98% in certain regions of the country like the midwest. in all the bad news a shred of good news. california one of the first states where cities, businesses and venues imposed sweeping vaccine mandates and it's working. that state has just seen a significant bump in number of daily vaccinations, rising after months of decline. that is what can happen when a state takes this seriously. also starting to witness what happens when a state does the opposite. florida in middle of another record-breaking week of coronavirus spread. covid hospitalizations have 13% higher than the peak in july of last year. 84% of all state inpatient beds are full. 86% of all icu beds are occupied. state broke the hospitalization record for third day in a row. florida accounts for 16% of the
country's new cases, it only makes up 6.5% of the population. this is a state clearly in trouble. when it comes to solving the problem, governor ron desantis is having trouble. during a press conference, he downplayed the crisis, claiming that hospitalization numbers are lower than last summer, saying that media is promoting quote hysteria around covid. today, the governor deflecting his poor performance by pointing on president biden's handling of migrants at the border. in ron desantis's florida, one plus two equals 751. >> joe biden has taken it on himself to single out florida on covid. ran for president saying he was going to shut down the virus. what has he done? imported more from around the
world having woep southern border. why don't you do your job. until you do, i don't want to hear a blip about covid from you. >> rather than doing anything about the rising hospitalizations in his state, governor desantis is using the moment to fundraise. this is fundraising email sent this afternoon. friend, joe biden wants me to get out of the way because i refuse to yield power to federal govern and strip floridians of their liberties. until he gets the border secured and under control, i don't want to hear a blip from him. chip in now to continue the fight. not against covid but joe biden. meanwhile his hospitals are creeping dangerously close to capacity. since no amount of funds aring
can help with the covid spread. children's hospital in miami, only free-standing pediatric hospital in south florida, doctor, thanks for being here tonight. your hospital is experiencing how serious this is. want to read to viewers. six in the icu, one who need a ventilator you told the associated press. half under 12 and rest were older and eligible for vaccine but none with covid-19 on friday were vaccinated. you are seeing this at your hospital, around your state. >> exactly right, ali. we're seeing up to 20 patients. got 16 patients on the floor, six in icu, one on the regular floor, one in the emergency to be admitted.
seeing increase in cases admitted and emergency rooms and urgent care centers across the city. >> and you're a children's hospital, but we seem to be seeing anecdotally and statistically more young people are being hit by this right now. what's your sense why that's the case? >> definitely higher percentage of children affected given that older population is vaccinated and for those 12 and under they cannot be vaccinated. there is a greater percentage of children affected as compared to beginning of the pandemic. in regards to raw numbers, we're not at numbers we saw in july of 2020. but getting close. with the peak possibly lafgt two to three weeks, we could surpass it. >> what do you want to be done? authorities and people? >> recommend obviously vaccinations, that's our way out of the pandemic.
for children 12 and over. as father of three i understand why parents are a little cautious about. it other thing i like to tell parents, this is very safe. were some cases initially of myocarditis reported, they were mild and resolved with run of the mill anti-inflammatories, and effects from covid are much greater than benefits of receiving the vaccine. under 12, get vaccinated yourself to protect your child. if not you as parent but your child. and for those 12 and under that can't get vaccinated and are indoors around other people, large crowds, importance of wearing masks. three points i would love to get across to americans and your audience. >> and mask thing is issue, some of the schools in your state have backed away from mandates
because the governor is against them. >> sure, and again, from our standpoint, our job as experts is recommend what's best in terms of the safety of the children in our community. we don't get into politics, but recommending safety for the kids in the area. and perhaps earlier in the pandemic when we were dealing with a different strain of the virus, the spread in children wasn't necessarily a concern. this delta variant is different as cdc said, this is a different ball game. we need to protect the children and those around them by wearing masks especially while indoors. >> protect the children, good enough reason i think for a lot of people to put the mask on. dr. mestre, thanks for being here and the work you do in miami. >> thanks you.   headline from editorial
board, you should resign governor cuomo, the board had already called on him to resign, another editorial saying cuomo is unfit for office. the buffalo paper put it, cannot overcome. ithaca journal and rochester chronicle were owned by the same company, using same headline, report is in, it's clear, governor andrew cuomo must resign now. been a whirlwind 24 hours since the attorney general accused governor of sexually harassing 11 women. he disputes the allegations and denies wrongdoing. he's also facing calls to resign from nearly all his party,
new york congressional delegation and president of the united states included. head of the new york state democratic party a long time ally joined the chorus calling for the governor to step down. a new poll found 63% of registered voters in new york think the governor should resign, including a majority of the democrats. majority of the assembly members support impeaching the governor if he doesn't step down. he's facing more than political pressure. prosecutors in manhattan, nassau and westchester counties have requested information from district attorney offices, could be action on the way. suarez has already opened criminal investigation into alleged behavior in the capital. >> the allegations early on led
myself and other prosecutors with current jurisdiction to believe that criminal activity had taken place. we'll conduct independent investigation expeditiously. >> in addition, lawyer for cuomo's first public accuser lindsey boylan tells the "new york times" she plays to sue the governor and advisers for retaliatory actions taken when she came forward. will cuomo resign? rebecca traister, writer at "new york" magazine has been covering the saga, good to see you. city newspaper saying no longer a matter of if but when. political observers who have known cuomo for years. it's interesting, he's combative
and said he would not resign, after the findings came out, pushed back hard. what do you think is happening here? >> i'll be fascinating if his stance has changed. you're right his initial reaction to this report, extensive document, 168 pages, over 1,000 footnoted sources, corroboration, something like 74,000 documents the attorney general's office made reference to and almost 200 sources they went to for testimony. his immediate response to astonishingly robust investigation was a swift, aggressive and -- i believe -- dishonest set of denials and indication he wasn't going to go anywhere. it's in his nature to try to retain his power by refusing to budge. if the amount of pressure being brought to bear by the press and fellow democrats is strong
enough to get him to step down that's going to be a remarkable story. >> tell me what that's like. because he has built up a remarkable set of allies in state, around the country. was a secretary in the administration at one point. president has asked him to resign. governors have called for t everyone in new york assembly, democrats, congressional delegation, polling indicates people want him to resign. what does support for cuomo look like right now? >> it looks like andrew cuomo, his relationship to power is what so many of the allegations are about. he has old-fashioned grip on power. governor, son of a former governor. classically white literally patriarchal grip on power. he believes on top-down power. lot of the allegations about
harassment and assault, others about bullying practices in his office and other reporting about the cover-up of nursing home deaths, lot of this is about old-fashioned approach to power -- intimidation, fear, threat, fostering loyalty to count on in moment like this. what you're seeing, as you're describing, all of his political allies giving way in face of this incredibly damning evidence. what does that look like for andrew cuomo? he doesn't have the loyalty he would have counted on lot of his career. but on the other hand we have contemporary models, including donald trump and ralph northam and justin fairfax in virginia who had members of their own party calling them to resign in face of scandals and they didn't. they kept their jobs.
donald trump was impeached and kept his job. there are ways to power through this, cuomo did it in spring, had party calling on him to resign in march and he's still the governor. there is a model for him having toughed it out already once this year but this is a very different circumstance, attorney general's report. >> thank you rebecca traister, we always appreciate your time.   donald trump might not be president anymore but courts and rest of the country are still dealing with loose threads of his legal issues. that's coming up. that's coming up this is the sound of better breathing. fasenra is a different kind of asthma medication. it's not a steroid or inhaler. fasenra is an add-on treatment for asthma driven by eosinophils. it's one maintenance dose every 8 weeks. it helps prevent asthma attacks, improve breathing, and lower use of oral steroids. nearly 7 out of 10 adults with asthma may have elevated eosinophils.
fasenra is designed to target and remove them. fasenra is not a rescue medication or for other eosinophilic conditions. fasenra may cause allergic reactions. get help right away if you have swelling of your face, mouth, and tongue, or trouble breathing. don't stop your asthma treatments unless your doctor tells you to. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection or your asthma worsens. headache and sore throat may occur. this is the sound of fasenra. ask your doctor about fasenra. if you can't afford your medication, astrazeneca may be able to help. feel the clarity of non-drowsy claritin. and 24-hour relief from symptoms caused by over 200 indoor and outdoor allergens. try claritin cool mint chewabls for powerful allergy relief plus a cooling sensation. live claritin clear.
- [narrator] this is steve. he used to have gum problems. now, he uses therabreath healthy gums oral rinse with clinically-proven ingredients and his gum problems have vanished. (crowd applauding) therabreath, it's a better mouthwash. at walmart, target and other fine stores.
team usa is ready for the olympic games... ...and so are mike and eddie!showme the olympics. they easily catch every single event with the award-winning xfinity voice remote.showme bmx racing!showme swimming. track and field. shot put. skateboarding. water polo. climbing! discus. surfing. dressage. dressage? it's horse dancing. magnificent. with the best of the olympics, and everything else you love, it's a way better way to watch! cheer on team usa with xfinity x1. say "showme the olympics in 4k" so you can watch in stunning 4k ultra hd.
this morning donald trump's lawyers went to court to prevent the treasury department from handing over taxes to congress. you're not watching a rerun. as president trump managed to keep his taxes secret unlike every other president in modern history. but with new administration in
place looked like congress would get access to the returns they've been after for years. but now may be able to tie it up in court. presidency is over but trailing ends hanging out there need to be dealt with some way. another thing not over, finding out how close we came to the trump white house intervening to overturn the 2020 election, using the power of the executive branch to change the results of the election. abc news got hold of letter by senior trump justice official addressed to republican governor of georgia and legislative leaders in the state. would have told the officials that united states justice department believed that election results in multiple states were in doubt and instructed the republican leaders to call a special session of the legislature to
overrule biden's rule and appoint a slate of presidential electors for trump instead. when trump's acting attorney general refused to sign off on the letter, trump wanted to replace him with the guy who drafted the letter telling georgia to overrule its voters. only threat from the justice department got him to back off and it was not abstract. politico posted letter from another senior official wrote on january 3rd when trump summoned acting attorney general to the white house, everybody assumed he would fire him and replace him with the election conspiracy guy, another guy at justice department wrote a resignation letter, ready to hit send. this evening after jeff rozen in
last week refused the president's direct instructions to utilize the department of justice law enforcement powers to his own end, president removed him from the department. rich and i resign effective immediately. end quote. but acting attorney general survived that white house meeting so resignation letter was never sent. we're learning this now because ongoing active congressional investigations into the final weeks in the trump white house. senate judiciary committee, chairman told ari melber they'll be calling witnesses and oversight reportedly spent several hours interviewing the top justice official who drafted the letter. what more can we expect to learn? member of the committee,
congressman, thank you for joining us. we've talked about amazing things last few years but this is really out there. there was a senior official of the justice department fully expecting his two bosses to get fired because they wouldn't agree to donald trump's request to call the election corrupt or somehow undermine the election, ready to hit send. it was surprise to him that jeffrey rozen didn't get fired. >> shows how close we were to calamitous result at justice department. this gentleman, fellow member of the complicated surname club decided it was possible his boss and boss's boss were about to be fired for not calling the election corrupt and not trying to overturn it. goes toshowhow close we were
to donald trump getting his way. >> congressman, the other thing that we were looking at, this justice department draft that was going to go to georgia election officials. again, we know about the phone call to brad raffensperger and that he asked him to find 11,000 votes and asked for favor, told the justice department, you don't have to find anything, just say this, leave the rest to me. and we know they actually wanted georgia republicans to basically throw out the election, to elect a slate of pro-trump members of the congress. in context of the voter suppression laws going on today, brings it all into sharper relief. >> it sure does, and this guy jeff clark was writing or drafting these letters to all the six states that ended up going for joe biden. and i think that what we see is
the beginning of the effort to overturn the election. and i think that now voter suppression efforts are just a continuation of the efforts and unfortunately what we're probably going to see more of in run up to 2024. all the more reason we need transparency as to what happened in aftermath of the 2020 election as well. >> i'm pleased we've seen someone willing to stand up to injustice, and jeffrey rozen was willing to stand out. other people i have interviewed say there's people in the government willing to do the right thing. how can we assure ourselves a corrupt president can't corrupt the justice department and overturn democracy?
>> it's a great question. at this point we have to realize that we can't just trust there will be people of integrity in high offices including the presidency, so what needs to be done at justice department to put in place reforms to prevent it from being used as instrument for overturning an election by the very president who lost. those are types of questions we have to ask now. and all the more reason i would say that we need to put in place whatever reform is necessary so shore up our democracy and protect it for the next elections. and special plug for hr-1 and s-1, the for the people act. we need that right now. >> seeing evidence that's more and more important. good to see you, illinois congress rajah krishnamoorthi.
we have a new development in storyrachelis following, when we come back. g, when we come back ss. their experts replaced my windshield and recalibrated my car's advanced safety system. ♪ acoustic rock music ♪ >> woman: safelite is the one i trust. they focus on safety so i can focus on this view. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪


emergency planning for kids. we can't predict when an emergency will happen. so that's why it's important to make a plan with your parents. here are a few tips to stay safe. know how to get in touch with your family. write down phone numbers for your parents, siblings and neighbors. pick a place to meet your family if you are not together and can't go home. remind your parents to pack an emergency supply kit. making a plan might feel like homework, but it will help you and your family stay safe during an emergency.
want to tell you the story of two missouris, first one starts with this man. >> what do you do? how do you start over your life at 62? >> you know, i've -- i kind of jokingly talked about that recently with a friend of mine, i guess i can be a cardboard box and get up under the bridge somewhere. >> that's how you're going to start? >> what do i have? i mean -- i mean they'd take this chair, i have to crawl out the front door, i have nothing. >> kevin strickland has spent more than 30 years behind bars in missouri for triple murder he
maintains he did not commit. what makes the case unique, everyone else believes he's innocent. case based on single witness who recanted her testimony, other men involved with the crime say he had nothing to do with it, and prosecutor's office thinks he's innocent, called conviction result of a profound error so why is kevin strickland still in prison? one person in missouri with power to free him is governor mike parson, he's no stranger to pardon power. since prosecutors stated their belief that mr. strickland was innocent, governor parson has issued three rounds of pardons, commuted sentences of two,
pardoned 63. but kevin strickland never made the cut. when asked, said it's not a priority and shouldn't be able to quote jump in front of the line. that's missouri number one. missouri number two rewards this kind of behavior. mark and patricia mccloskey who got famous pointing guns at black lives matter protesters in front of their mansion. led to invite to speak at republican convention and to u.s. senate campaign for mark mccloskey. they pleaded guilty to harassment and fourth degree assault. far from showing remorse, mark mccloskey pledged to quote do it again faced with same circumstances. yesterday, missouri governor mike parson pardoned mark and patricia mccloskey, neither
facing jail time. they jumped to front of the line but kevin strickland, jailed for 40 years for crime he and state says he didn't knit. crystal quaid democratic minority leader in missouri. thanks for being with us. what do you make of this? governor parsons saying strickland can't jump the queue, but this other couple gets a pardon? >> first of all, thanks so much for having me. what i think about this, frankly disgusting. we have been discussing kevin strickland's case for some time, prosecutor's offense and eyewitness and victim have recanted, the prosecutors saying he needs to be release, is innocent. then the governor said it's not priority and few minutes later
pardons the mccloskeys, that we know jumped the line. pure politics and nothing new from the governor of our state. >> what are those of us outside missing here? this many people say he didn't commit the crime and he's been in jail 40 years, what is the governor's patience he needs to slow down and not rush this thing? >> only thing i can say is politics. we have contested senate race in missouri. senator roy blunt is not seeking re-election, so former disgraced governor, attorney general running and mark mccloskey running. governor parsons jumping in and doing this, disregarding innocent man in prison and another high profile case in lamar johnson as well, ignoring these individuals and moving to mccloskeys is pure politics. one has to question if it's an
endorsement from the governor himself. >> that's the next question i was going to ask, has the governor weighed in on the fact that man he pardoned is running based on this whacky fame that he's -- he got from pointing a gun at protesters. >> he hasn't said anything specifically about endorsement, but during governor parsons' own campaign he said he planned to pardon them as soon as he was elected again. lot of folks in state of missouri think this is endorsement, he supports these folks and believes they're more important than the innocent individuals incarcerated. >> what does justice for strickland look like right now? >> i don't know we can quantify that. this man has been in prison over 40 years in our state without dna evidence there's not financial benefit he could receive. i believe just let the man live
his life. everyone says he shouldn't be in prison. and talking about trying to do criminal justice reform, governor himself said once upon a time he was trying to get folks out of prison. fact this is a discussion still is shameful. >> let's talk about what else can be done for him. a pardon would be good, but what else is happening with kevin strickland, what else can be done? >> fortunately this legislative session we passed legislation going into effect end of office to allow the prosecuting attorney to file petition of the court for judge to release him based on the petition. hopeful end of the month she does intend to move forward with that and hopefully we'll be able to get justice. >> crystal kwaed, thanks for joining us, we appreciate your
time.   weeks away from united states completing withdrawal of troops from afghanistan but fate of thousands of afghans who worked with the united states remains uncertain. i will be joined live from former afghan translator from inside afghanistan right after this. than the leading allergy spray at hour one. [ deep inhale ] claritin-d. get more airflow. limu emu... and doug. so then i said to him, you oughta customize your car insurance with liberty mutual, so you only pay for what you need. oh um, doug can we talk about something other than work, it's the weekend. yeah, yeah. [ squawk ] hot dog or... chicken? [ squawk ] only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪
what makes new salonpas arthritis gel so good for arthritis pain? salonpas contains the most prescribed topical pain relief ingredient. it's clinically proven, reduces inflammation and comes in original prescription strength. salonpas. it's good medicine.

♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
hey google, turn up the heat. ♪ ♪ ♪   it was october of 2010, fighting between the taliban and u.s. troops was intense. in a small district in afghanistan. over 100 u.s. and british troops died in action in the battle of sangin. chicago native believes this was fiercest battleground in the entire war. he was in face of it. stared death in the face but had secret weapon, afghan interpreter. major calls him zach.
not his real name, young man who teamed up with u.s. troops, few ventured to do so because that particular area was dangerous. day in and day out zach risked his life to help the u.s. troops. november 2010, zach overheard radio communication that americans intercepted, heard enough to gather where the enemies were hiding. zach crossed the field on his own to tackle the taliban commander, saved many lives that day. in another instance, he picked up rifle of wounded american soldier and assisted u.s. troops in battle. worked for u.s. marines for nine months before working for two years with contractor who provided services to u.s. army. despite all his work he's denied visa to come to the u.s. since threshold of two years of
service, u.s. government wants zach to verify the time he worked with the contractor but they're no longer active and they kind find them. applied in 2015, no answer but has heard from the taliban who see zach as traitor who protected americans and want him dead. sent him letters asking him to surrender, pay ransom or die. been in hiding awaiting recognition from the u.s., major shuman helping in official capacity, marine who wants to keep the interpreter alive. dirk durbin questioned blinken about his case. >> i'm going to send you article from the "chicago sun times" by marine myther thomas shuman, he
talks about the fact that an interpreter who risked his life to save this marine corps officer is at risk himself. >> i saw that. read that article. >> can you give me assurance, as you've been asked by others, this will be a high priority to protect the men and women and their families whose lives are at risk because they're willing to stand up on our side? >> yes, absolutely. >> june 8th, still no answer. sadly means that situation for hundreds of afghan nationals who fought alongside troops are in limbo now that u.s. forces are departing. don't ask for much, just a u.s. visa for risking their lives. joining us now, major shuman, served two tours in afghanistan and zach who worked as
interpreter, awaiting visa approval. zach is not his real name, protecting his identity and location for security reasons. welcome to both of you. zach thanks for being here. would like you to tell us and our viewers what the threat to you is right now. the taliban knows your phone number, know things about you, know where you lived and made it clear they will kill you and your family. >> thank you, sir, i appreciate it. my wife -- the taliban are looking for people who has worked, who has done the work with u.s. forces. and they are looking for. and targeted and killed him. now with the help of major tom
shuman i'm out of my province and living in apartment. and because of this situation, but still u.s. army wants me to send them update accommodation later but i don't have that, and don't have contact with my army, the team which i worked with, i don't have contact. i have email. when i email them, says this email is not exist in the system. and the work i has done with marine forces in sangin, i had hr recommendation but unfortunately they didn't accept that because it's for nine
months. and -- >> just so my viewers understand -- >> uh-huh? >> u.s. requires two years, you had nine months with the marines and extra time with the contractor, you're trying to get letter but can't find him and u.s. is not authorizing that. >> yes. the e-mail which i work with the army but this e-mail is not working now. when i contact them and e-mailed them, they said this e-mail is not in system. and they want me for two year work and i don't have this and the e-mail is not working. and i'm wondering how to contact with them. and still i just start my process in 2016, and it is still
no progress in it. >> major shuman, this is a remarkable situation. can you attest for the purposes of our viewers and americans wondering about this. can you attest to what zak did with your team sph. >> yes, sir. zak undoubtedly risked life and limb. zak undoubtedly went above and beyond his duties as an interpreter, whether that was running through a minefield to detain an enemy epw or picking up a rifle to help us provide covering fire. zak has made more sacrifices for this country and risked more for this country than most of our citizens. he has nine months of verified
valorous, honorable service with the marine corps during the most lethal battle that the marines fought. and you'd think nine months would be sufficient. it's not, and we have not been able to push his case forward for over five years because nine months apparently is not sufficient. >> and you have advocated for him. senator durbin has advocated for him. in fact, in the province where you both worked together, the taliban has made great advances there already. there's real danger to these interpreters who are left behind on what sound like technicalities but for people like zak, major shueman, this is matter of life and death for his family. >> absolutely. right now the capital is under attack and my thoughts and prayers are with the soldiers there that are fighting. and the province zak was in is
now completely overran by the taliban. i had to support zak with about $9,000 over the last week to be able to transport his family safely out of his province because it takes a lot of money to get through some of these check points and get all the way to kabul. even with that zak is still not safe, and zak is still potentially not going to be evacuated when the evacuation finishes. and the thing is that we're fortunate we're able to assist zak, but many, many interpreters you said hundreds -- i would say thousands are in his case and don't have the same support right now and it's something that needs to be addressed. >> zak, people are curious about this story. they care about these interpreters and others who helped american troops in the area. what message do you have right now for the president of the united states and for americans about the situation that you and others like you face?
>> i first of all say to president biden we are respecting you because you're the leader of america. and we work with alients in the field and the mission of the united states -- now it is your time our american friends, our american partners time to help us because the enemies are looking for the people who work with the americans and work for the american mission and kill them and kill their family. and now i just ask, mr. president, to please help us and rescue our lives.
and help us, please. this is my message to mr. president. if he can find a way to take us out of this crisis. yesterday one of our interpreter here the taliban attack on him and kill him. and also in the future maybe they'll target us and kill us. when we go out we cannot go safely. we just cover our face and just go get some food for the children in the town, in the city because we are interpreters of americans. we were working for the american mission. now please, president, it's your time to help us.
>> it is our time to help you, zak. as an american we had be honored to vuioand the people like you as our neighbors. zak worked as an interpreter for the u.s. government in afghanistan. marine officer thomas shueman and others are working to bring him and those like him to america. thank you for your time. stay with us. america. thank you for your time. stay with us yardwork... teamwork... long walks.... that's how you du more, with dupixent, which helps prevent asthma attacks. dupixent is not for sudden breathing problems. it's an add-on-treatment for specific types of moderate-to-severe asthma that can improve lung function for better breathing in as little as two weeks. and can reduce, or even eliminate, oral steroids.
and here's something important. dupixent can cause serious allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis. get help right away if you have rash, shortness of breath, chest pain, tingling or numbness in your limbs. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection, and don't change or stop your asthma treatments, including steroids, without talking to your doctor. are you ready to du more with less asthma? just ask your asthma specialist about dupixent.
(piano playing) here we go. ♪♪ [john legend's i can see clearly now] ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ make your reunion happen with vrbo. your together awaits. vrbo

that does it for us. we'll see you tomorrow. it's time now for the "last word" with lawrence o'donnell. lawrence, i'm always happy to see you, but i'm a little speechless after a conversation i just had with one of these afghan interpreters who we speak about in the abstract, but they're not abstract. they're real people who are really worried about their lives and their families. and he made a plea to president biden and to americans to just