still an unanswered questions. kpleptd work. thank you. >> thank you. >> therachelmaddowshowstarts now. good evening. >> good evening. thank you my friend. much appreciated. lot to get to this hour. in the obama administration the issue of gun violence, specifically the idea of gun violence being treated as a public health issue, that almost derailed president obama's nomination for southern general, a doctor named vivek murphy. the nominees held up his nomination for basically a year to make him a scapegoat for the nra. he ultimately served as southern general under president obama. he served until president trump fired him. president biden has just brought
vivek murphy back. he was confirmed by the senate last night. he should be sworn in soon. tonight the senate also confirmed the official who will be vivek murphy's bos, dr.rachellevine was confirmed tonight to be assistant secretary of health. that is a history making appointment. dr. levine is now the first transgender official to be confirmed by the senate, the highest ranking u.s. government official in history. she will be the number two official at hhs. all republicans but two voted against her. susan collins and murkowski voted for her. dr. levine's boss will be the new secretary of health and human resources. no republican 1234er9s voted for him at all but democrats were nevertheless able to confirm him on a party line vote. in order to become health secretary he had to leave his
previous job, which was attorney general of the state of california. there had been a bunch of discussion that congressman adam schiff of california, frequent guest on thisshow. he had such a high profile roll particularly in the first impeachment of president trump. adam schiff might replace xavier ba certificato. well, today we learned that kmap adam schiff will not be going home to california to take that will job. he'll stay in d.c. as head of the intelligence committee. picked for the new attorney general job in california a man named rob bond won'ta. he will now become the first ever filipino american to have that very powerful gig. attorney general of the most populace state in the country. at the justice department in washington, though, there's
trouble. we've been reporting for weeks now, for months now on how the trump presidency and attorney general bill barr ripped the u.s. justice department apart at the seems. merritt farland has been confirmed. he is in position now, but he's not just got the hard work to do of running federal law enforcement as attorney general. he's now got to figure out what to do with all of the trump and bill barr era scandals that are still straggling around the halls of justice, dragging their entrails down the hall. where do you start? at least four different trump cabinet secretaries, we know, were referred to the justice department for prosecution. four cabinet officials, and all of those criminal referrals were dismissed out of happened instantly. criminal cases, of course, against the president's friends or against people who could
conceivably testify against president trump in their criminal trials, those cases suddenly dropped by the justice department or interfered with at sentencing, even after guilty pleas were entered. the president's personal lawyer, not the one who went to prison. the other one. the president's personal lawyer of late. implicated in both of the scandals for which the president was impeached. mr. guiliani, the subject of an active federal criminal investigation but the u.s. attorney's office investigating him was blocked in conjunction with that case thanks to direct interference from trump appointees. reaching down and stopping simple warrants being issued in the criminal investigation of rudy guiliani. i mean, that's not ok. it's not just a mess there to clean up, like it is in a bunch of cabinet level agencies after
the trump administration. at the justice department in particular, it's not just a mess left over. it is an ongoing mess. it's not just past scandals that need attending to. it's current cases that have within tampered with along the way during the tremp era. it's interference in law enforcement that still needs to be fehr itted out and potentially prosecuted. it's a huge complex really bad problem that the biden administration has had hoisted on it. i don't think it's getting enough attention, frankly. this is like you loan somebody your car for a week and they did give it back at the end of the week but now while you need your car to get to school and do your work and do errand and stuff, turns out the guy you lend it to, the guy poured sugar in the gas tank, invited a family of raccoons and squirrels to live in the back seattle. hey, merrick, here's your car back. thanks for the loan.
hope it's still cool. that's going to be your daily driver. watch utt other. the squirrels bite. i mean, we have to use the justice department for stuff. so this is about what the last administration did but it is a current problem. for all the help that garland is going to need, just this week, the bill barr appointee who inexplicably got put in charge of the u.s. attorneys office in d.c., just this week he appears to have actively screwed up potentially all the most serious prosecutions of alleged january 6th u.s. capitol attackers. he did that this week. even now, the trump folks left over at the justice department are still messing stuff up, really serious stuff that's at the top of the top of the priorities list for garland. for all the help he'll need in cleaning this up, righting the
ship, so far -- and this is important. he has none of his senior staff in place. none of them. he's been confirmed, yes, but nobody else. republicans have blocked all other appointees. one is coming to a head tomorrow morning and i'm going to be watching that when it comes to a head tomorrow morning another 10:00 a.m. in the senate, and i will tell you why. here's the thing to know. this is swisher county, texas, up in the texas panhandle. lubbock is an hour due south. from the county seat, tulle ya. tullia texas. does that ring a bell? even if you don't know every name of small towns in texas. it might ring a bell if, for example, you ever watch 60 minutes on cbs.
since tulia texas was the site of one of the most astonishing interviews that ed bradley put on tv. >> early one morpgs in 1999 tom coleman's efforts culminated in 13% of the black population. they were roused out of bread, paraded in front of local television cameras in handcuffs, many of them half dressed, and charged to selling co cape to tom coleman at various times over his investigation. they declare the streets cleared of garbage. it may be no coincidence that it led him to the town's black communities. it was well known that he had used racial slurs in front of his superior officers in tulia. >> everybody's making a big deal, oh, god, he said a word like [ bleep ]. let's put him in the electric chair. yeah, the word [ bleep ] was bad in the 20s and twirts and 40s
and 60s and 70s. now it's just common slang. you know, you can watch tv and here that word, you know. it's a greeting. >> coleman told me he he used the n-word toe fit in with blacks during his investigation and admits he used it among his white friends. >> the word [ bleep ]. >> yes, sir, i've used that word. i've used it a lot. what's up [ bleep ]. >> is that a greeting you would use with me? oh orks no, sir, not you. >> but it's ok to use it around other people. >> yes, sir. >> oh, no, not you, sir. you, i would never look in the face and call the n-word, but i otherwise use it all the time. one of the most amazing things i've seen in a 60 minutes interview, and for 60 minutes, that's saying something, but the
overall story was a small town. about 5,000 people. they mass arrest more than 10 mischaracterize of the black population of the town. more than 40 of them are accused of being big-time drug dealers and kingpins. this is how bob herbert described. he said kafka could have had add field day. officers expand out and represented more than 10% of the african-american populations. men and women bewildered and unkept were paraded before tv cameras and featured prominently on the news. they were drug traffickers, the sheriff said. a pig farmer, a forklift operator and ordinary young
women with young children. if these were cocaine dealers as alleged action they were among the oddest in the u.s. they didn't have any money and when arrested, they didn't have any cocaine. no drugs, no money, were gathered. one of the few white defendants, a man who happened to have a mixed race child was sentenced to more than 300 years in prison. the hog farmer, a black man in his 50s was sentenced to 890 years. and so on. it was the work of a single police officer who claimed to have conducted an 18-month undercover operation. the arrests were made solely on the word of tom coleman. his undercover operation was ridiculous. there were no other police officers to corroborate his activities. he did not wear a wire or conduct any video surveillance. he did not keep records. he said he sometimes wrote such
important information as the names of suspects on the dates of transaction on his leg. prosecutors put coleman on the witness stand and his uncorroborated unsubstantiated testimony was enough to send people to prison for decades. uncorroborated, unsubstantiated. what was all the more amazing about this is that the cope in question who was the single-handed law enforcement source and the source of all evidence in this entire round-up of more that 40 people, the cop in question cheerfully admitted that he had absolutely no evidence, absolutely no corroboration, shutly no way to substantiate anything he was saying against any of these people whatsoever. all of it was what he said. which he was happy to admit, because clearly that was enough. >> they were all given harsh sentences ranging from 20 to 341 years in prison, even though the
arrests have turned up no cocaine, no drug paraphernalia,s no weapons, no money or any other signs of drug dealing. the convictions were based solely on the up corroborated word of tom coleman, who had followed none of the standard procedures routinely used in undercover drug operations across the country. >> just for the record, did you appear a wire or other recording device? >> no, sir. >> dove any video or photographic evidence that the buys took place? >> no, sir. >> dove any independent eyewitness testimony from another undercover officer? >> no, sir. >> dove any fingerprint evidence? >> no, sir. >> but don't you want something more than your word? >> uh-huh. >> another little piece of evidence that can point the finger at that person? >> yes, sir, that would have helped but that's not how the operation went. >> sentences of up to 341 years
in prison. dozens of people arrests, convicted, sentenced to very hard time. the cumulative number of years that these folks got in prison was over 750 years in prison. they're all arrested that day, all based on that one officer with no supporting evidence whatsoever. texas state officials at the time were beside themselves, by which i mean they were delighted. more than 10% of all the black people in that up to arrested and put in prison. a third of all the black men in that town. give that officer a reward. they actually did give him an award. the texas state attorney general at the time gave that officer the lawman of the year award. the state attorney general of texas did that. and then it all fell apart. it all fell apart astonishingly. >> more than a dozen people convicted on drug dharmgs are
expected to be freed from texas prisons today, this after the officer whose testimony sent them to prison is charged with perjury. jim has more. >> it was a huge drug case for such a small town involving minorities. now apparently it is falling apart. in july, 1999, the authorities in tulia texas, population 5,081 arrested 46 people, 39 of them black, as part of a sting operation conducted by one undercover cop. tom cole posing as a long-haired biker with a drug habit claimed he bought from the suspects. some went to trial. on the strength of coleman's testimony only, 19 of them were sentenced to a total of about 800 years in prison. on judicial review coleman's cases began to fall apart. >> every transcript around this thing has evidence of tom coleman perjuring himself on the
stabld. >> tonya white could prove that she was 300 miles away in oklahoma city cashing a check. the same day coleman claimed she sold cocaine to him. there is outrage. the legislate your passed a bill. so later today, the same courthouse wherethey were convicted, the remaining 13 people will be released by a judge. >> that was june with try. that was a morning report that aired on nbc on the todayshowthat morning. later that day, that judge did free everybody because it turns out when pressed, when somebody actually tried to defend these people against these charges, when you started to investigate whether or not what this one cop had said was true, turns out the cases against all of them were entirely made up. >> basically i'm a trial judge. >> so two months ago district judge ron chapman ruled that all
the suspects had been improperly convicted. today 12 of those, still doing time, were brought back in chaps to the same courthouse where they had been tried. >> let these people go. let them go today. >> and judge chapman did releasethem on their own recognizance. coleman has been indicted for aggravated perjury in another case. it was jubilation for them and their loved ones. joe moore was the first to be convicted. he got 90 years. he was asked what he had lost. >> just about my life. >> reporter: tonight, most of the suspects have a chance to resume their lives. >> great day. great day. >> good afternoon. >> good afternoon. >> my name is benita, i'm an attorney with the naacp legal defense fwund. retired district judge ron chapman ordered the immediate release of 13 individuals who
were wrongfully convicted of drug charges in tulia, texas, and has been in prison for years since their arrest. the judge found tom coleman to be quote the most devious nonresponsive law enforcement official this court has witnessed in 25 years on the bench. coleman submitted false reports, misrepresented his investigative work, and misidentified various defendants during his investigation. in addition, testimony by coleman and other law enforcement officials involved in the drug bust was abuse of official capacity while conducting the tulia investigation. >> did you kags that last bit? the cop in question here, the cop that made up all this information. the cop himself got arrested during the course of this investigation for theft. and abuse of office.
the kafka-esque up ending of this town was the work of this one crooked police officer, who himself had been charged with theft and abuse, who would go on, in fact, to be convicted of perjury, that young civil rights attorney who went to tulia texas in the wake of all these convictions, who went through the cases and realized that they were all built on nothing, who personally lined up lawyers from around the country for more than 30 defendants who didn't have any defense counsel, whose appeals had already been rejected. who about acted as lead counsel herself. who got the crooked cop to break down and melt down on the stand in march 2003, which did break open the case and all the convictions were overturned and all the prisoners were freed. in august of 2003, mun governor rick perry issued a item and complete pardon for all of those
poor people. that young civil rights attorney who exposed what happened there, who made that happen, her name is venita gupta. >> i spent two days going through files trying to piece together the stories. then found out who their family members were in the town and just drove to their homes and spent a fair amount of time really just kind of getting to know them. >> she was a little lady with a lot of power and a lot of knowledge. >> we will not rest in our quest to right the horrific wrongs that have been inflicted on this community. >> i came back to new york. i made a chart of the individuals and kind of compiled all that information. we needed to put law enforcement on trial. i also realized that i was one attorney with 46 potential clients, so i mobilized law
firms in new york city and washington, d.c. >> footage from one of several documentaries that has been made about this landmark miscarriage of justice and what it took to expose it,ened it did. that lawyer went on to become the head of the civil rights division at the justice department under president obama. she served in that high profile job without any whiff of scandal or trouble. president biden has nominated her for assistant attorney general. in that nomination she has among other things, the support of every major law enforcement operation in the country, including the fraternal order of the police. even they support gupta. she is one of the senior justice department officials who is not confirmed in this administration because republicans are not only
blocking her nomination. they are slow walking it through the senate. they're trying to trip it up, try to keep her from being confirmed. here's the thing. here's why this is all worth knowing. ready? who do you think is the republican senator who is leading the charge against venita gupta. merrick garland doesn't have any of his top people at the justice department. she's not there yet. why is that? there's a republican senator taking appointment on this. leading the charge to try to keep her from being confirmed. who is that? it's a senator from texas. a senator from texas. he used to be attorney general of the state of texas. it's texas senator john cornyn, who when he was attorney general of the state of texas, is the guy who gave officer tom coleman the texas lawman of the year award for his great work in tulia, texas. before venita gupta came in and
exposed who that guy actually was before he was convicted of perjury. they all got full pardons from rick perry because of the kafka-esque nightmare that was that guy, who john cornyn named lawman of the year. i wonder. i just wonder if senator john cornyn might be at all embarrassedant this and about the young lawyer who came to texas and exposed this thing, this terrible and cartoonishly evil thing that he had helped along, that he had celebrated, that he had given an award to. it is now senator john cornyn leading the charge against venita gupta to be the number three official at the justice department. even because all the law enforcement operations endorsing her. judiciary committee is due to vote tomorrow. republicans led by john cornyn has been demanding that she
actually needs to come back and do her confirmation hearings over a second time. that is not going to happen. tonight we have obtained exclusively, i think, the reply letter from democratic judiciary chairman senator dick durbin, the reply to republican senators dmachbding that she needs to do her confirmation all over again. senator durbin saying no, they are not going to stop the nomination any longer. it says in part quote dear senators, while i always appreciate hearing from colleagues on the committee, your request for a second hearing appears to be little more than a delay tactic aimed not at gathering more information but at obstructing a highly qualified and historic nominee who's dedicated her career to the protection and expansion of civil rights. the committee will not hold a secretary hearing for ms. gupta and her nomination will move forward. a second hearing is unwarranted and unnecessary. the committee will vote on her
nomination tomorrow. sincerely, dick durbin, committee chairman. venita gupta is going to be confirmed by the senate ultimately. she will be the number three official at the u.s. justice department under merrick garland, despite republican opposition to her led by the senator who she humiliated for his enabling, encouraging, celebrating role in one of the worst most racially explosive astonishly brazen law enforcement put-up jobs in the last generation. senator cornyn, i do not know if he's ashamed by his role in all that. i wonder if he ever tried to get the award back. his effort to get revenge on the woman who had to come in and fix his mess, that efforts will fail. she will win and he will lose again. god bless texas.
it's going to happen tomorrow morning 10:00 a.m. in the judiciary committee. i for one will be watching. judi. i for one will be watching sensodyne sensitivity and gum gives us a dual action effect that really takes care of both our teeth sensitivity as well as our gum issues. there's no question it's something that i would recommend. ing gain flings, their laundry smells more amazing than ever. ah, honey! isn't that the dog's towel?
hey, me towel su towel. there's more gain scent plus oxi boost and febreze odor remover in every fling. gain. seriously good scent. love the scent of gain flings? then you'll swoon for long lasting gain scent beads. ♪♪♪ it's velveeta versus the other guys. clearly, nothing melts like velveeta. ♪♪♪ (vo) last year subaru and our retailers donated 50 million meals to feeding america.eeta. and yet, one in four children may still face hunger. so, subaru and our retailers are doing it again, donating an additional 100 million meals to help those in need. love. it's never been needed more than right now. subaru. more than a car company. (vo 2) to join us with a donation, go to subaru.com.


today in the senate we saw something we basically never see. this was the top democrat in the senate, chuck schumer and the top republican, mitch mcconnell squaring off at a hearing. i don't know if you watch a lot of footage of the senate. this is -- you should know this is something that doesn't happen. if you're the leader of one of the parties in the senate, you don't sit on any committees. so you nevada see them at hearings. you nevada see them sitting at the dias, let alone both at the same time. that's how important this hearing was today that the leaders of both parties in the senate came in person. in part so they could yell at each other. this is the first hearing on senate bill 1, before the people
act, which is the democrats' big voting protection deal. there was testimony on the bill to the senate rules committee chaired by amy closeby schaar today. the leaders of both parties were there in person. this voting rights legislation is probably the one thing that could stop the hundreds of state level voting rights rollbacks that are currently in the works in republican kroeld states. how can it pass the senate? senator schumer says failure is not an option. today he said this bill will pass this body meaning it will pass the senate. why does he keep saying that, though? is he cheerleading for that to happen or is there some plan to make that happen? republicans are a hundred percent, a thousand percent opposed to this. how is it going to pass? joining us is senator amy closeby schaar. she ran this land marm hearing
today. thanks for joining us. >> thank you and thank you for covering the hearing tomorrow. i'm going to be there and she'll be fantastic at this job. perfect for this moment in time with major prosecutions going on of hate crimes and thank you for really showing her strength as a candidate and how great she'll be. >> the bad blood behind what appears to be some of the republican-led opposition to her strikes me as something that ought to be national news. if you gave the tulia, texas, detective an award maybe you should stand aside when gupta sits down in your committee
hearing. i guess we'll see that sometimes tomorrow. >> with our hearing, this is a moment, though, this is bill, when you look at some of the things we've been dealing with on the more in tonight, chris murphy dealing with background check bill, 80, 90% of the american people want all of the things that are just stuff. a lot of it has to do with republican attempt at gridlock. i personally favor getting rid of the filibuster, but what you saw in our hearing today was the strength of this bill. you didn't just see eric holder testifying for it. trevor potter. remember that name, the former head of the federal election commission, republican head p and chief counsel to john mccape in both his presidential races testified for the bill because he believes we just need to have -- pick up our democracy again. as i said, brush it off move forward as a country. hundreds of bills trying to suppress the vote.
yet, we had 160 million people vote during the pandemic. why? because a number of states had extended vote by mail. they made it easier to register. they made it easier to early vote. this is an opportunity you get maybe once every 50 years. that's why senator schumer made this one and why we're so devoted to passing this bill. >> i feel like the devotion to passing this bill is somebody that i am seeing in real time and i believe in the is sincerity of it. if the filibuster is still in place, the only way to pass things without republican support is to go through budget reconciliation, this isn't the kind of thing that can pass there. what is the plan, to hope that public support eventually drives
republicans to change their minds? >> let's start with this. it's passed the house. that's always a good thing. number two, the first time we've ever had a hearing on this bill and we'll have a markup which we can do in a 50/50 senate after -- in april, the month of april on my committee. then we go forward and this bill's ledmerckly who's doing a great job. barring that we have senator manchin talking about the fact that some version of this bill or in any bill he's able to move to a talking filibuster. know what that means? that means we make, make the other side speak. we make them stand and speak. they have to come in day after day and night after night like "in mr. smith goes to washington" and own the common sense reforms supported broadly by democrats and republicans out
there. to me, it's a little like the american rescue plan. they were objecting to that but the people wanted it and we got it done with 351 votes. 51 votes. >> sign me up for a front row seat. that's more than just determination. that sounds like a plan. thanks for helping us understand. we'll have you back more. >> all right. thank you. >> all right. much more ahead tonight. stay with us. much more ahead to. stay with us t, putting natural teeth at risk. new polident propartial helps purify your partial and strengthens and protects natural teeth. so, are you gonna lose another tooth? not on my watch! why choose proven quality sleep from sleep number? because a good night's rest is where muscles recover, and our minds are restored. the new sleep number 360 smart bed is temperature balancing.
and it helps keep you asleep by sensing your movement and automatically adjusts to keep you both effortlessly comfortable. perfect for those relaxing weekends. proven quality sleep, is life-changing sleep. only from sleep number.
feeling sluggish or weighed down? it could be a sign that your digestive system isn't working at it's best taking metamucil everyday can help. metamucil psyllium fiber, gels to trap and remove the waste that weighs you down. it also helps lower cholesterol and slows sugar absorption
to promote healthy blood sugar levels. so you can feel lighter and more energetic metamucil. support your daily digestive health. and try metamucil fiber thins. a great tasting and easy way to start your day. as we continue to return to classrooms... parents like me want to make sure we're doing it safely. especially in the underserved communities hardest hit by covid. trust me, no one wants to get back to classroom learning more than teachers like me.
using common sense safety measures like masks, physical distancing, and proper ventilation. safety is why we're prioritizing vaccinations for educators. because together, we all have a responsibility to do our part. and together, we will get through this, safely.   she was the only person who showed up for geography that day. september 12th, 1974, valerie banks and her backpack were the only ones in class. a court had just ordered the city of boston to desegregate its public schools. the court said boston had to
start bussing white kids to black schools and black kids to white schools. lots of families from white neighborhoods in boston balked at the idea of sending their kids to traditionally black neighborhoods. they balked especially at black kids come to what was all white schools. that's how she ended up all by herself, the first day of the court orred bussing program. parents flat-out refused to accepted their kids to school with black kids. within a year, a third of white kids got taken out of boston public schools, and it is painful to see that young girl sitting all by herself in that classroom. but it only got more traumatic for kids like valerie there. black students were the target of big racist mobs in boston. often really vice president protests by while people in boston. they threw rocks at the kids while they got on the bus. black kids had to buck
shattering across coming at them through the bus windows as the buses were attacked. here's a woman screaming at a bus full of black children who are being taken home after school. the photographer says she was yelling to those little kids "go home and stay home." yelling at little kids. people walking the street in ku klux klan gear. this is a building in a white neighborhood in boston, a message for all the black kids, all the black students being bussed in to see on their way to school every morning. we blurred what the word is but you know what the word is. the trauma those kids had to endure. it would have been -- it would be almost unbelievable if there weren't the pictures to prove it. >> i remember riding the bus to protect the kids going up to south boston.
signs hanging off the buildings [ bleep ] go home. pictures of monkeys. people felt it was all right to attack children. >> i had no idea what to expect. i didn't know anything about south boston. i didn't know anything about they didn't like us. i didn't know anything that was in store for us. but when we got there it was like a war zone. i came back and i told my mom and i never forget, i said mom, i am not going back to that school unless i have a gun. exactly, at 14 years old. i am not going back to that school. >> that overt racism, the racist attacks in boston over bussing. it took years before any of that simmered down, but stars for those who lived through it never faded away. boston remains an incredibly unequal place to live by just about every metric. in 2013, the net worth for a white family living in boston was roughly $250,000.
net worth of a black family living in boston was an average of $8. boston police department is 65% white, even though white people make up less that half the city. that's still today. if you look at what the city itself is investing in where they're doling out lucrative contracts handed out we the city in 2018 and 2019. one half of 1% of those went to black-owned businesses. you see it in representation at the highest levels, too. the mayor in boston has only ever been a white man. for all time. for the last 91 years that white man has been either of irish or italian descent, full stop. 90 straight years of irish or italian american men. the city of boston has never been represented by a black or a woman until now. this is kim jany.
her family has lived here for six generations. when she was 16 she became a mom. she was still in high school. after graduating high school she started a community college. she ultimately enrolled at smith. she worked a job cleaning bathrooms while she was in college to provide television and pick and roll for her daughter. she pushed to reform boston's public schools. 2017 she was elected to the city council in boston. she was chosen by her piers then to become the city council's president. that choice was made last year. as city council president, there she was in place. that is how this week kim jamie became mayor of boston. the last mayor of 3w5u69, marty walsh, just resigned to become president biden's labor secretary. the line of succession is the president of the city council gets to be acting mayor. that makes kim jany the first
black person to lead the city of boston, the first woman to lead the city of boston. she was also one of those boston kids in the 70s who was pelted with rocks and racial slurs. she was 11 years old when she got on the desegregation buses in boston. she was bussed to school in the same part of town where they set that mankin of a black person on fire. yesterday, yesterday she went back to that school where she was pused to in 1976. she went back, this time on her first full day as the mayor of boston, massachusetts. >> as a girl growing up in boston, i was nurtured. it was my village. when i was just 11 years old, school bussing rolled into my life. i was forced on to the front lines of the 1970s battle to desegregate boston public schools. i had rocks and racial slurs
thrown at my bus simply for attending school while black. just yesterday on my first full day as mayor, i visited my childhood alma mater. i saw students happy to be back in school with their teachers and friends instead of the pain and trauma that i had experienced in middle school. to think that my teenage grandsons were born at a time when there had never even been a black woman on our city council, and today my six-year-old granddaughter rosy and other little girls can see themselves represented in massachusetts' highest court, the halls of congress, and now in the 55th mayor of boston. >> the new mayor of boston, massachusetts, mayor kim jany joins us live here next. stay with us. ins us live here n. stay with us but all my employees need something different.
oh, we can help with that. okay, imagine this... your mover, rob, he's on the scene and needs a plan with a mobile hotspot. we cut to downtown, your sales rep lisa has to send some files, asap! so basically i can pick the right plan for each employee... yeah i should've just led with that... with at&t business... you can pick the best plan for each employee and only pay for the features they need. hi, i'm pat and i'm 75 years old. we live in the mountains so i like to walk. i'm really busy in my life; i'm always doing something. i'm not a person that's going to sit too long. in the morning, i wake up and the first thing i do is go to my art studio. a couple came up and handed me a brochure on prevagen. i've been taking prevagen for about four years. i feel a little bit brighter and my mind just feels sharper. i would recommend it to anyone. it absolutely works. prevagen. healthier brain. better life.
(deborah vo) i was hesitant to get the hearing aids because of my short hair, but nobody even sees them. (vo) discover the exclusive, new miracle-earmini- a nearly invisible hearing aid from the brand leader in hearing aids with over 70 years of experience. (deborah) when i finally had miracle-ear and i could hear for the first time, i started crying. i could hear everything.
new miracle-earmini. so small and comfortable that no one will see them, but you'll notice the difference. call today to start your 30-day risk-free trial at your local miracle-ear. we need to reduce plastic waste in the environment. that's why at america's beverage companies, our bottles are made to be re-made. not all plastic is the same. we're carefully designing our bottles to be one hundred percent recyclable, including the caps. they're collected and separated from other plastics, so they can be turned back into material that we use to make new bottles. that completes the circle, and reduces plastic waste. please help us get every bottle back.
♪ that completes the circle, and taking you back...ste. ...since way back. freshness and softness you never forget, with downy.
welcome to one of the few major cities that have never elected anything but a white male mayor. even cities don't post particularly big plaque population like seattle in denver have elected black mayors and in some cases more than once. here in boston, the old line held. not anymore. joining us now kim janey, madame mayor, thank you very much for being here and congratulations. >> thank you very much. it is an honor to be here. i am a big fan, thank you for having me. >> it is nice of you to say. let me just ask you one of the things you said in your speech when you were sworn in today that you bring to this moment life experience that's different from the men who came before me.
tell me about what that means for this job, for the city of boston and how that will influence this incredibly large job you are taking on now? >> well, as a woman growing up, and little girl growing up and as a black woman who have lived through our darkest days in our city, i certainly bring all of that with me. but, i also know that our city is a city of hope and possibilities and so i am encouraged certainly by what i saw when i visited my childhood alma mater. i was bussed here in boston during the segregation era. it was a traumatic experience growing up and violent times in our city. here sitting here as mayor does
symbolize have far we have come as a city. we have a lot of work to do. yesterday on my first full day as mayor i had the opportunity to go back and see young people learning in the classroom. i visited a classroom where they were studying desegregation in boston and to be there in that classroom as someone who lived through that experience and able to share that experience with the students was pretty incredible and to be there as the first black mayor and the first woman mayor for our city was mind-blowing. it was great to see students in the classroom and learning and engage and not having to worry about that painful time in our history. that being said, we do have a lot of work to do in boston. these issues and challenges are not new. they are centuries old in the making. there is a lot of work to do
when it comes to combatting structural racism in our city. i will bring my experience and unique perspective as a black woman to this work. >> from a national perspective, boston has a unique role right now in the response of the pandemic just because boston is a, not only a tech hub but also a healthcare capital for the country. massachusetts had a hard time with covid. is the vaccine roll-out in boston, other elements of covid response is now lend in your lap as mayor as you take on these responsibilities? >> yes. it is a huge priority for me making sure that we are rolling out the vaccines equitably.
communities that have been hard hit, no surprise and communities of color have been hit hard and other cities across our nation. that's due to the preexisting and inequities before covid. making sure we are getting the vaccine out and reaching all communities and lifting up those who have been hardest hit and that's the number one priority for me so we can reopen safely and make sure we are getting businesses opened and getting our people back. >> kim janey, congratulations, you have a huge task ahead of you. god speed. come back frequently. it is so good to see you.
>> thank you so much,rachel. take care. >> all right, we'll be right back. stay with us. >> all right, we'lt back stay with us . no, this me was last year. i didn't get my madness last year, so we're doing double the madness this year.


we are expecting the first former press conference of president biden. it is going to be a big day tomorrow in washington. see you aga