whatever, people are saying, people are making those up. we're inflating the numbers. and that's an unfortunate ongoing part of this. but for a governor of a state to say it's okay to lose as many people every day as australia has lost in the entire pandemic, shame on him. shame on him. >> kathleen, always good to get a chance to talk to you. thank you for your time tonight. >> nice to talk to you. >> that is all in, "therachelmaddowshow" starts now. >> good evening. happy to have you here. there's a lot going on this hour. tonight, we'll be speaking with congresswoman alexandria ocasio-cortez. she'll be here live with us in just a few minutes. it is of course just over 24 hours now until we're facing an absolutely pointless federal government shutdown tomorrow at midnight. i say that it is absolutely pointless and i mean it in a
technical sense. previous government shutdowns were all dumb. but they were at least nominally for a reason. there was some dispute, a policy matter which the two parties couldn't agree upon. and a shutdown ensued until they could figure it out. in this case, i say this is a pointless shutdown that we're facing tomorrow night because although republicans in the senate are blocking the legislation that would keep the federal government from shutting down, they're not doing so for any particular reason. they're not even really bothering to say why they're doing it. they're only doing it because they can. so we will talk with congresswoman alexandria ocasio-cortez about that, as the house passed legislation to keep the government open. it's gone to the senate where the idea will die because of republican opposition. we'll talk about that, and the high-stakes fight to try to pass
the legislation that makes up the bulk of president biden's economic agenda. if it doesn't happen, it will be because of kyrsten sinema and joe manchin, who apparently don't want to pass president biden's agenda, but they won't say what they want to pass instead. they're just saying no. and nobody really seems to know what they want to do instead. but they're blocking everything that is otherwise possible without them. again, aoc, congresswoman alexandria ocasio-cortez will be with us live for the latest on that in just a couple of minutes here. we're also going to be taking a look at what may be a very consequential decision just announced by youtube. which is owned by google now. youtube announced today they will finally start taking down anti-vaccine misinformation videos. if you know people in your
personal life or in your work life or at school who have crazy misconceptions about vaccines, or who believe wildly untrue things about vaccines, anecdotally, i've found in my own life that these beliefs are almost always trace back-able to stuff they saw on youtube. they watched that, and it suggested they watch similar things. and they go into a universe in which they thought this was the available information about vaccines. these videos that present nonsense as if the information was real. that there's microchips in vaccines, or they make you sterile, or you can fight covid
with vitamins that you can buy by clicking on the box. and videos embedded on facebook or twitter, youtube has been an absolute sewer for vaccine misinformation and fearmongering of all times. and the company says finally they'll take that horse puckey down. we'll talk about that with a reporter who has been all over that story. and there's this amazing twist in that story where vladimir putin's government, the government of russia, is angrily threatening youtube today. and threatening to take youtube off of all russian internet systems. they're threatening youtube. they're very upset with youtube, because the russian government's kremlin-funded propaganda networks have been promoting anti-vaccine nonsense
conspiracies all over the world. and the russian government is mad that that stuff their government produced to target western democracies is now getting taken down. the content at stake here is disinformation, deliberately false hyping fear about vaccines. russia is mad because they're like, wait, how can we destroy the west from within by stoking extremism and divisiveness? how can we continue to do that? which we've been so successful at, if these technology companies no longer help us shovel that toxic waste into their social media streams? nyet, we'll cancel you, youtube, we need you. so youtube -- google has not
distinguished themselves in terms of caving to threats from the russian government. there's a new twist tonight. we'll have more on that tonight as well. we're also watching for reaction from trump world tonight, as the committee investigating january 6th, the trump supporters' attack on the capitol on january 6th, the committee has sent out 11 new subpoenas demanding documents and testimony from people involved on january 6th. the rallies that immediately preceded the attack. and former president trump has made it clear that the people who already got subpoenaed in the investigation, he expects them to defy the subpoenas and notshowup to testify. the people who got them were
former trump officials, the white house chief of staff, also steve bannon. and the group subpoenaed today, people involved in planning of the events on january 6th. so we'll see what happens with the subpoenas that went out last week and these new subpoenas to much lower profile people, 11 of them who got them tonight. the week after the january 6th attacks, just a few days after the january 6th attack happened, texas democrat wendy davis, you remember her. she was a democratic candidate in texas, a high-profile texas democrat, she did an interview in which she said the january
6th attack on the capitol shouldn't have been that much of a surprise, particularly to texans. she had been onboard this biden/harris campaign bus just a few days before the 2020 election. it was october 30th, 2020. the election was four days later, november 3rd. and that campaign bus was heading from san antonio to austin, with a car full of volunteers behind them. a whole crowd of vehicles bearing trump signs and flags surrounded them and tried to run them off the road. this was on interstate 35 in texas. it started in san marcos, texas. they kept calling police for help as the cars were trying to run them off the road. the police couldn't respond. they had helped them in san antonio and austin, but in between, on that stretch of
i-35, the police wouldn't respond. so the biden/harris campaign bus, the volunteers, they were left alone. and the trump supporters in this caravan screamed at them, threatened them, tried to run the bus off the road. they almost succeeded in stopping the campaign bus, slowing them down to about 20 miles per hour. and at one point, one of the trump vehicles steered into and hit the white vehicle that was following the bus. which was driven by biden/harris volunteers. that violence and intimidation worked that day. you see a still of the trump supporter truck smashing into the white vehicle deliberately, while they were in motion. that worked in the short run. it caused the campaign to cancel their planned events in texas that night after arriving at their destination.
once video started circulaing of what happened there, particularly the collision, the fbi said they would investigate. but nothing apparently ever came of that fbi investigation. president trump tweeted a video of the incident, and praised it. i love texas. these patriots did nothing wrong. marco rubio praised what happened as well. he told a trump rally, did you see it? we love what they did. nothing appears to have come out of any fbi investigation of what happened there. no local law enforcement in texas bothered with it either, apparently. there were no consequences for anybody involved in that. this past summer, the bus driver and the other people onboard brought a civil suit against the trump supporters who bragged about doing it online, about running the bus off the road. bragged about hitting a volunteer's vehicle. they filed that lawsuit, a civil case, in june of this year. but i guess that is still the
only hope for any resource. otherwise, there have been no consequences, they got praised by trump and rubio. so wendy davis said, incidents like that, where she was targeted, there should have been a red flag, that there was something wrong, a line had been crossed in terms of violence in american politics. trump supporters appeared to be poised for violence. and the lack of law enforcement taking it seriously at all, in fact, the praise for the perpetrators, and the lack of any negative consequences for them, she warned that that was an emboldening thing. for anybody thinking they might be able to get away with threats and physical intimidation and violence as part of the trump movement, certainly what happened on october 30th, 2020, in texas was a sign they were good to go. and there wouldn't be any consequences for them. october 30th. three days later, november 2nd,
the day before the election, someone hit the democratic party headquarters as well in harris county in houston. >> staffers arrived for work to find the front door splashed with paint. locks filled with superglue. and slogans saying don't vote. >> that was houston, the democratic party headquarters on november 2nd, the day before the election. two weeks later, november 16th, it was travis county, texas. democratic party headquarters there in austin. the headquarters smashed up, windows broken, paint and graffiti again. in that incident, at the austin democratic party headquarters, that was the reason that that democratic party headquarters in that county, they got a new security system after that incident. to be a democrat in texas around the trump/biden election season,
was to face threats and intimidation and violence, on the bus, at headquarters, multiple headquarters. and in all of those incidents, as far as we know, nobody was ever arrested, nothing was ever solved by law enforcement. fbi never did anything. in the case of the bus being run off the road and the campaign vehicle driven by campaign volunteers being hit by a deliberate collision, local law enforcement not only didn't solve it, they didn't even try to stop it despite multiple 911 calls while it was happening. they just chose not to do anything. this is the kind of thing for which the word emboldening was created. these things have consequences down the road, and change the
plot down the road. whether or not the perpetrators are made worse, whether they're emboldened by a lack of consequences and law enforcement response. it changes the other people, too. and that can change the plot sometimes. which we'llshowyou tonight. the last attack, the travis county democratic party headquarters attack in austin, texas, when they got their windows smashed in, paint, graffiti, that led travis county democrats to install a whole, now security system. linked security cameras, a whole bunch of them. because of that, because that was the consequence of that attack for them, i can nowshowyou something that you should see. that happened last night. and i'll tell you, if you are listening to me and not watching me, i'm saying this because my partner susan is off cooking dinner and listening to me and
not watching me live when theshowis on. honey, this is one of those things for which you want to sit down and watch. this is a visual, it's not going to work just listening to it. this is a visual and it's remarkable that we have this. what i'm going toshowyou is something that takes place over the course of 12 minutes. this is last night. early this morning, just after 2:00 a.m. local time in austin. travis county democratic party headquarters. roll the first video. we're going to loop this so you can see it, so you can get used to what you're seeing. this is obviously a dude, he's got a flag gaiter type thing. a mask covering his face. and this is an external security camera on the democratic party headquarters in austin.
he throws a rock, maybe a chunk of concrete, and prances away to the lower left-hand side of the screen. look at the time stamp. you see the date, it's 9/29/21. nowshowthe next clip. look again at the time stamp here. just a few seconds later. the guy scampered off to the lower left, he was picking back up whatever he had been throwing. he comes back and makes another go of it. throws that rock or chunk of concrete or whatever it is. throws it at the same target harder, but from a different angle. again, he sort of scampers away. it is still, you see it's 2:06 a.m., 47, 48 seconds. now, a different camera. same time. we have an interior view of the
same moment. again, check the time stamp, 2:06 a.m., 45, 46, 47, 48 seconds. you can see here, we're looping this, as the guy, whatever it is, this rock, chunk of concrete, he's throwing it and breaks the window. you see it come through the window. right? and the time stamp shows us that's the interior view of what you just saw him doing outside on the sidewalk. all right. so that's all taking place between 2:06 a.m. and 2:07 a.m. a couple of different tries to break the window, it's the second try that appears to succeed. and he breaks the window. now watch this. look at the time stamp here. it's not 2:06 a.m. anymore. it's about 4 1/2 minutes later, he comes back with something in his left hand.
you get a good view with his various head adornments here, but most clearly, you see something in his left hand. looks like a bottle with something sticking out of the top of it. you see as he walks by the building where he just threw the rock through the window, down low by the ground. see how he looks at it? he looks at the spot where he just threw the rock through the window. looks at that closely as he walks by. see him check out his handiwork. that's 2:11 a.m. now, two minutes later. 2:13 a.m. dude walks back the other way. crouches down and puts something in there. where he just broke the window with the rock. the spot he was just looking at with that bottle in his hand, with that rag sticking out of the top. he puts something through that place where he just threw the rock through the window, and the bottle isn't in his hand anymore. we know what it is he was dropping in there at 2:13 a.m.,
because we have that internal camera at the same time. look at the time stamp. 2:13 a.m. you can see what he put through the window, what he put through the broken glass, it's on fire. some kind of lit, incendiary device. and what appears to be the bottle with the rag sticking out the top of it that he was carrying in his left hand just a moment ago. the bottle is there, laying on its side. some other thing is there that is sparking and starting to billow smoke. it starts to catch, and you see, it's starting to fill the democratic party headquarters in austin, filling up with smoke. this is 2:13 a.m. what we can see from the security footage is apparently the guy who is doing this, he's
broken the window, put something in there, thinks things aren't burning bright enough, not enough smoke, fire, and damage. the threat isn't grave enough yet. that firework or incendiary device, whatever is producing all the smoke in there, it goes for about 4 1/2, 5 minutes. then 4 1/2, 5 minutes down the road, he comes back. and again, this is an internal view. look at the time stamp, 2:18 a.m. dude comes back with something else on fire through the broken glass, and as you can see, this time he gets what he was looking for. we get a real fire. and considerably more smoke. at 2:18 a.m. and 41 seconds, a big follow-on explosion. watch, yeah. that larger explosion, that secondary explosion, just seconds later. perhaps that's the molotov cocktail finally going off.
it blows inside the democratic party headquarters. and we get a conflagration. and curiously, we also know that the dude almost blows himself up in the process here. we know that because of the external view. look at the time stamp. the external camera caught him at that exact moment, when he came back to put something else in there. just like we saw at 2:18 a.m. and 34 seconds, he put something else through the window that he broke. seconds later, the flames leap out and he takes off. almost set yourself on fire there, didn't you. i can also tell you from that external view, thankfully, not long after, just moments later, a neighbor arrives with a fire extinguisher. there he is. tries to put it out. you see a car slow down to see
what is going on. a neighbor trying to put it out, he looks around to see where the guy went, where the attacker was. first of all, thank you to the neighbor. but second of all, they only have those cameras because of the previous attack on their offices. now, we can tell you tonight that the party has been told the fbi is treating this as a credible threat. this attack was accompaied by a written threat to texas democrats. the exact content is not being released for security purposes. but we're told it's an explicitly political threat. the note says, this is a warning. this will continue to happen. because democrats can keep states like new york and california, but not texas. and that note delivered alongside the molotov cocktail and the other incendiaries and
the broken window. violence and intimidation as a means of trying to either achieve a political end or defeat political processes, they don't go away on their own. violence and intimidation, if you get away with them, they take root. they become the norm. unless they are punished. in this case, the stuff isn't -- hasn't been punished thus far. in fact, it's been celebrated and encouraged and cheered by the political party it's been designed to benefit. unless this stuff is punished, it is emboldening for the people who get away with it. because they know that intimidation and threats work. after the biden bus was attacked on i-35 just before the election, they didn't do their events that night. you can't blame them, but physical violence and
intimidation worked. it works unless it's punished. and if it's not punished, they do it more. and one party has praised it from the highest levels, and even from the party that is supposed to be on the reasonable side, senator rubio. we need consequences for people who commit political violence. and as texas democrats have come up against frequent and violent intimidation. but we also need to look on the folks who are targeted with this, to see how it changes them, and to see what we can do to hold them up. joining us now, the chair of the travis county democratic party
in texas. her office was vandalized last night. i appreciate you making time, i'm sure it's a stressful time. >> definitely been an eventful morning to say the least. >> did i explain any of that wrong, does what i said seem to you to be the way it unfolded, with the scope of the attack? >> in working with the austin fire department as well as the fbi, it is our understanding that that is how events went. it was due to the ineptitude of the perpetrator, or domestic terrorist if you will, were it not for his inability to the bomb go off, our office would have definitely gone up into flames. thanks to blake, who works at
the nearby bar, we didn't have the office go up in flames. the molotov cocktail, followed by the fireworks, they didn't explode. that's why we were able to still have an office standing. and frankly, the letter that was accompanied with that did come with a warning. it was a clear message of a political nature, but more importantly intimidation. i wanted to share a message if you don't mind with that person who left the message. democrats in texas are unafraid. we've fought my entire life and for generations for the rights of black, brown, yellow, hispanic, asian, and white people to vote. you may try to throw small bombs into our office. but we'll be voting in november, and in the democratic primary in 2022, in the general election in
2022, we'll make sure our voice is heard. there are more of us than you. you represent a small minority of hateful, violent extremists. i represent teachers, union members, artists, and everyone in our community. we're going to stand together united. we're one travis county, one democratic party, and one state and one country devoted to the democratic process and our right to vote. >> i know the fbi has told you that they're treating this as a credible threat. and that is sort of a term in law enforcement circles. what do you understand that means, and are you getting help from law enforcement? what actions are they taking to protect you? you mentioned you worked with the fire department, but what sort of protection do you need, and what are you getting?
>> the lieutenants who we met with as well as the captain of the arson unit, as well as the fbi and the county sheriff's office, who is also investigating another incident nearby, has let us know they're following leads, and they feel confident that some of those leads will get them to the perpetrator. i really have to thank them for their response. we may not always agree about what comprehensive safety looks like in our community. but there are good people who serve our community, and we have to lift them up. it's a lot easier to try to burn down an office building than to try to address the complexities of our community and of law enforcement as well as black lives matter. and come together and say, we're going to work through the complexities together as a community. so that way, the people who are trying to divide us will not win overall.
>> katie, thank you for your time. i know it's a very stressful day. i appreciate you helping us understand. >> thank you so much.   still to come tonight, congresswoman alexandria ocasio-cortez will be our guest ocasio-cortez will be our guest live, next.live, next ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪
over the years, mercedes-benz has patented thousands of safety innovations. crash-tested so many cars we've stopped counting. and built our most punishing test facility yet, in our effort to build the world's safest cars. we've created crumple zones and autonomous braking. active lane keeping assist and blind spot assist. we've introduced airbags, side curtain airbags, and now the first-ever rear-mounted front-impact airbags. all in the hope that you never need any of it. ♪ ♪
>> tech: every customer has their own safelite story. this couple was on a camping trip... ...when their windshield got a chip. they drove to safelite for a same-day repair. and with their insurance, it was no cost to them. >> woman: really? >> tech: that's service you can trust. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪
it's another day. and anything could happen. it could be the day you welcome 1,200 guests and all their devices. or it could be the day there's a cyberthreat. get ready for it all with an advanced network and managed services from comcast business. and get cybersecurity solutions that let you see everything on your network. plus an expert team looking ahead 24/7 to help prevent threats. every day in business is a big day. we'll keep you ready for what's next. comcast business powering possibilities.
this was the headline at politico.com three months before the election. progressives prepare to put the squeeze on biden. this was their headline one month before the election. progressives unveil 2021 agenda to pressure biden. here's a bunch more headlines, no honeymoon. activists on the left prepare for a possible biden presidency.
progressives' patience wears thin. ready to push biden leftward immediately. noticing a theme? that was the beltway line when joe biden got elected. sure, progressives helped him beat trump, but no honeymoon. for the next four years, progressives will be his worst nightmare. they'll be the thorn in his side, as he tries to pass the agenda he was elected on. we're less than a year into the biden presidency, but boy, has that prediction turned out to be 100% totally wrong. right now in congress, democrats are in the middle of high-stakes negotiations over whether and how to pass the agenda that joe biden ran on as a presidential candidate. and his biggest alies in the
fight, the members of congress who are working the hardest, and willing to play hardball the most aggressively to pass his agenda that he ran it, it's the progressives. who it turns out aren't a thorn in his side. they're trying to get his agenda done. and don't just take it from me. >> i'm going to stick to the plan of our party, to preserve the agenda of the president and make sure that, you know, to send a message that we're clear, we will vote for this if we also get the entire plan voted for. i think what is important to lay things out on the field, and how we explain this back home is, 96% of the democratic party, myself included, is in agreement that we need to pass both bills. >> 96% in agreement. i'm going to stick to the plan of our party. as of now, democrats' plans are to hold a vote on the smaller
bipartisan roads and bridges bill tomorrow. but progressives say there's no reason to do that, and they have no intention of passing that unless and until president biden's build back better bill, the big agenda item, moves as well. they're committed. so what happens next? joining us now, new york congresswoman alexandria ocasio-cortez, a member of the progressive caucus. it's a pleasure to have you here. thank you for your time. >> of course. thank you for having me. >> i wanted to ask you, obviously we're getting to crunch time. there is some reporting tonight that the senate may have agreed amongst themselves that they will avert a government shutdown tomorrow night. that may take some of the immediate pressure on, but we're still looking at is string of hurdles in terms of passing the president's big $3.5 trillion plan. is there a different conversation happening inside the progressive caucus than inside the democratic party caucus as a whole?
are those conversations materially different? >> you know, i think the conversations that happen within the progressive caucus are very focused in how do we expand child care, health care, climate action, and restore power to working class people in the united states of america. that's what we talk about every day, all the time, from week to week. and, you know, there may be some differences between the progressive caucus and the overall caucus in some of those centers of conversation. but i would say that we have been laser focused on this agenda and delivering for working class families across the country all year. and that does not change. it's really just a discussion of, how do we best do that in a way that most people can feel in their everyday lives? >> for people who don't follow
congressional process very closely, a lot of people who i respect their news judgment on these things, they say all of our intensive coverage of this process is alienaing a lot of people. the filibuster itself is a mystifying thing. can you explain for folks who maybe haven't been following this super closely, why there is an insistence that this smaller bill shouldn't pass on its own tomorrow, right away. and then move on to the larger bill later. why is there an effort to link them both and make sure the big bill doesn't get delayed after the small bill passes? >> i completely agree with you that a lot of the discussion about process is difficult to follow. and doesn't really cover the heart of this conversation. which is that we have two bills
at present, one which covers, which underfunds most priorities across the board. there are very few priorities that get the full funding they actually need. and the other bill, known as the reconciliation bill. that has stuff like universal pre-k, community colleges, expansion of medicare, and we're debating including vision and dental in medicare. conversations about lowering the age of it. robust climate action, renewable energy. all of that stuff that you're going to feel in your everyday life is known as the build back better act, also known as the reconciliation bill. this was the original infrastructure bill. and we have a vast majority of democrats, about 96%, that are
in agreement of the entire agenda. a very small handful of democrats, about 4% of the party, are trying to essentially split these two priorities up, you know, and i personally don't think it's an accident that the ones that a lot of lobbyists love are in the much smaller, under funded bill. they want to split them apart, force a vote on the first one. and because we have such narrow margins in the senate and the house, the read that we have is that they'll dump the second one. leave it out to dry, and never vote on it. the way that we bring our two parts of the caucus together is by saying, you know what, my bill is bound up in your bill. and your bill is bound up in my bill. so do i love this very, you know, what i would argue a conservative, underfunded bill? no.
but i'll vote for it if we pursue them both together. but what we should not take is this approach, which is what people are trying to do by forcing a vote form on an underconsidered, underamended bill by itself. saying we want to force this vote right now. it's either my way or the highway. we don't work together. i want your vote, but i'll give you nothing for it. your community will not benefit from this as much as mine will. we don't have to pursue that route. instead of saying, it's either mine or yours, we can say, both of us can succeed together. and that is the case that the progressive caucus is making. if we vote for this bill tomorrow, i want to be very clear, if we vote for this underfunded, too small infrastructure bill alone, instead of voting for it with the rest of the president's agenda, if we vote for it alone, it could make our climate crisis
worse, and it risks being the only or the last substantive piece of legislation that we'll pass. i do not believe we have the assurances necessary to believe in good faith that reconciliation will pass if infrastructure passes tomorrow. it gives that small, narrow margin of democrats that have, you know, really been making this process quite difficult, you know, there was an overall agreement two months ago. and then a reneging of that. if we can stick to the original plan, to the promises we've made each other, we can transform the lives of millions of americans for the better. >> do you feel optimistic that that will happen? >> i do feel optimistic. because the progressive caucus, and not just the progressive caucus, but we're now seeing a lot more democrats, even not part of the progressive caucus
join and say, child care, health care, the climate crisis, it's too important to shelve. and i want to thank people at home for supporting house democrats who do not accept corporate p.a.c. money. they transcend a lot of party ideology. but they're a recent phenomenon that has been surging since 2016 and 2018. i believe that is what is changing the dynamic we're seeing in washington today. that stranglehold that lobbyists have traditionally had over washington is starting to loosen. because everyday american voters and everyday people at home are starting to support members of congress and send members to congress that don't just do what
lobbyists tell them to do. but say, we're going to take tough decisions. this is a moment of heartburn. but i want to be clear that not voting for this tomorrow is not a permanent decision. we can always reconsider it when the time is right. and when the tensions have been assuaged. and i do believe they will be assuaged. >> new york congresswoman alexandria ocasio-cortez, making a really important structural point there about what motivates individual members of congress in their decisions, moments of heartburn, as you say. thank you for joining us. >> of course, thank you. >> all right.   we've got much more ahead tonight. stay with us. they may have lost an eye, or their hearing, or their youthful good looks. but there's a lot of things
these remarkable dogs haven't lost... like their ability to lick, wag, and love with the best of them. join subaru in helping underdogs find a loving home and celebrate all dogs during our third annual national make a dog's day. ♪ lights out, follow the noise. ♪ ♪ baby, keep on dancing like you ain't got a choice. ♪ ♪ so come one (come on), come on (come on), come on. ♪ no one is just one flavor. ow!


after my car accident, no one is just one flavor. i wondered what my case was worth. so i called the barnes firm. when that car hit my motorcycle, insurance wasn't fair. so i called the barnes firm. it was the best call i could've made. atat t bararnefirmrm, our r inry a attneysys wk hahard i could've made. atat t bararnefirmrm, to get you the best result possible. call us now and find out what your case could be worth. you u mit bebe sprisised ♪ the barnes firm injury attorneys ♪ ♪ call one eight hundred, eight million ♪   today, youtube did something that might very well save a lot of lives.
they said henceforth, they will take down content that contains misinformation about approved vaccines. if this works, if they can effectively manage to keep disinformation off their platform, it would be a big deal. how many people do you know who have been slow to get vaccinated or are inexplicably opposed to vaccination because of something they saw and believed from youtube? already the company is facing blowback and threats from among other places, the kremlin. they've been spreading anti-vaccine disinformation all over the democratic west, because they're just that concerned for our health. joining us now, a reporter who has been covering the story for bloomberg technology. thank you so much for making time. >> thanks for having me.
>> how hard will this be for youtube to enforce? have they resisted doing it for a long time because it will be hard to effectuate? >> well, there's a few reasons. since the beginning of 2019, they've had a hands-off approach to videos about vaccines and health in general. but since 2019, they've done de-ranking. youtube is owned by google, and think about searching for something, they're hard to find. they're not recommending these with the algorithm. now they've decided it's not enough. the issue with enforcing the policy will be the two loopholes they've given. scientific discussions about
vaccines and vaccine treatments, as well as personal testimonies. that is something where they're really going to have a difficult time determining where that line is. >> part of the reason i wanted to ask you back tonight is the last time you were here, we talked about the confrontation between google and apple in russia, around the russian elections. the russian government pressured those two big american tech companies that they should take down content from the russian opposition, and both google and apple acceded to those demands. now, the russian government is saying they're angry with youtube, and they're going to block them in russia because of this. they say that's a hard enough violation in terms of youtube's ability to operate in russia,
they may take them off the internet there. how will youtube deal with this from the russian government bullying them like this? >> so, in germany, they've had strict laws. so the context here is, youtube and google are very cognizant of the eu regulation, even more aggressive than the u.s. they've clearly shown that on covid and now on vaccines, they're leaning on health authorities. and saying we're consulting with experts, and we're going to take a pretty hard stance. that being said, youtube has been able to have the loopholes. earlier today, i watched a clip of joe rogan talking with a guest about their experiences with the vaccine and the side effects. the issue with youtube is, their
videos are long. it's much more difficult to moderate and for not just people at the company but certainly for regulators to watch and see how they're enforcing these policies. >> mark bergen, reporter for bloomberg news, thank you for being here. it's a fascinating story. and obviously still developing. appreciate it.   all right, we'll be right back. stay with us. ck stay with us been busy too... innovating, sourcing organic ingredients, testing them and fermenting. fermenting? yeah like kombucha or yogurt. and we formulate everything so your body can really truly absorb the natural goodness. that's what we do, so you can do you. new chapter wellness, well done. .



quick update on something i mentioned earlier that has just been breaking as we've been on the air. tomorrow night at midnight is when the government was set to shut down if the senate didn't keep the lights on. chuck schumer has just announced that that deal is in place. they have a deal, apparently to only keep the government open until december 3rd. at which point we'll do this all over again. but that deal should produce a
series of votes that keep us from shutting down tomorrow night. do we still hit the debt ceiling and default? well, stay tuned. a unicorn in training. a corner to build a legacy. a vision for tomorrow. a fresh start. a blank canvas. a second act. a renewed company culture. a temple for ideas. and a place to make your mark. loopnet. the most popular place to find a space. it's a wishlist on wheels. a choice that requires no explanation. it's where safe and daring seamlessly intersect. it's understated, yet over-delivers. it is truly the mercedes-benz of sports sedans.
lease the 2021 c 300 sedan for just $449 a month at your local mercedes-benz dealer.
just one last thing toshowyou before we go tonight. the congressional baseball game has been under way at nationals stadium tonight in washington, d.c. at that game, there's been a few banner drops encouraging the democrats to hold the line. reconciliation first, hold the line. that was held up tonight in the crowd today at the congressional baseball game. a couple of other signs, one of which had a swear word on it. we got that blocked out. one says, our lives are not a game. pass the $3.5 billion bill. the other one said, dems don't "f" this up. we'll see if that