of these things permanently. in my piece, i outlined one potential example where you could preserve a lot of the child tax credit expansion. you could do child care and pre-k, do fixes to obama care subsidizes and essentially, pick another policy, you know, could throw in medical care. >> for a good amount of time and they would not die in the next republican congress. check out the piece on slate.com, jordan weissman, thank you for your time tonight. that is all for the week, therachelmaddowshowstarts now, good eveningrachel. >> good evening, chris, have a fantastic weekend, my friend, much appreciated. happy to have you here. it was may, 2019 when michael cohen was ordered to report to prison. mr. cohen of course had worked for years for donald trump at his real estate business. when mr. trump turned to politics, mr. cohen became this
very visible surrogate and enforcer for trump, after mr. cohen pled guilty to, among other things, helping cover up illegal campaign contributions for his presidential campaign actually hush payments to women to prevent them talking before the campaign, after he pled guilty to helping trump with that, among other things, in may, 2019, he was sent to prison. after serving about a year in prison, though, mr. cohen got out and was transitioned effectively to home confinement and the reason he got out then is because of covid. it wasn't special treatment for him, this happened to a lot of prisoners at the time but a seriously crazy thing happened to him right after that. something that appears to have been very specifically designed for him. just a few weeks after he was sent home because of covid, the bureau of prisons revoked his
home confinement and decided even though he had only been home a couple of weeks, they'd send him right back to prison. sure he'd been released because of covid like other prisoners, told him he would wear ankle monitor and serve out the rest of his sentence at home but a few weeks into it, changed their minds, and without warning, shackled him and sent him back to prison because he broke the rules, they say of what you're allowed to do while on home confinement. what is the rule he had broken to get himself thrown back in federal prison? turns out, what he had done, is wrote a book critical of then president donald trump and speaking on social media of the forthcoming publication of that book. the problem with that scenario as i just laid out is that's not actually against the rules. for people out on home confinement, like he was in that
moment. it appears, and this is contested, but it appears, that under the trump administration, federal prison officials drafted a special rule just for michael cohen that said he couldn't write a book, or talk to anybody in the news media, or post anything online, a special rule just for him. and as i say, this is contested but i'm also pretty confident in saying this is what appears to have happened, because it's not just me who's asserting it, not just michael cohen asserting it. a federal judge says that's what happened. after they shackled michael cohen back up again and sent him back to prison for the grave crime of him writing a book, saying it will be published, last july, a federal judge ruled that cohen actually had to be released again and further, the judge ruled explicitly, the judge administration had locked michael cohen up, revoked his
right, for retaliation about writing this book. the judge said the purpose of transferring cohen from furlough and home confinement was retaliatory, in response to cohen exercising his first amendment rights to publish a book critical of the president and share the announcement on social media. the judge declared this an unconstitutional act against him, orders him freed. and, you know, it's one thing for a person like michael cohen's former boss, donald trump, to threaten cohen, shake his fist at him, criticize him, personally maybe retaliate at him. you lay down with dogs, you get up with fleas but it's a much bigger problem, for all of us, if any president, so motivated, can employ the federal bureau of prisons and the department of justice to carry out that kind
of retaliation, with all the power and compulsory force of the united states government. i mean, trump might have loved to say "lock her up" about hillary clinton and threatened during the debates in 2016 that if he became president, she'd find herself in jail. he never did that, of course, but he did actually lock up michael cohen, and a federal judge ruled that the reason michael cohen was locked up was because of retaliation against him for criticizing trump. they actually put him in prison for doing that. that's what a federal judge says what happened when he ordered cohen freed. now, mr. cohen filed a new lawsuit against trump and also, importantly, against trump's last attorney general william bar who was head of the justice department at the time this happened, also filed a suit against a whole variety of federal officials involved in this mess. i know it may seem like a sort of new chapter in the on going
michael cohen saga, i know, the personalities here can get distracting, but take the personalities out of this. i mean a president being a bad guy is one thing. a president being a bad guy and then being able to use the bureau of prisons and the justice department to go public his enemies out of their homes, shackle them and throw them in jail without legitimate cause, that is a blairing red siren, not just for what it means to have a bad person in power, but a government bent to that person's will, to have a government that is insufficiently independent and governed by ethics and law, that an inscrupulous can employ the federal government in that way for personal purposes. that's a big, blaring red siren and i always felt about that case, that because it's michael cohen and there's so much drama around michael cohen, i felt that case maybe never got taken all that seriously. that's a big deal case in terms of who we are as a country.
this new lawsuit is a civil case brought by mr. cohen, we will see what happens with this case. i find myself wondering since he filed the suit last night, whether the national republican party might also pick up donald trump's legal fees for that case. i mean trump's the main defendant here. we just found out in the washington post, the national republican party is paying trump's legal fees, paying trump's lawyers in the alleged tax fraud, bank fraud, insurance fraud cases that are pending against trump and his real estate business in new york. those cases and those investigations, they have nothing to do with trump's time as president or even trump's status as a republican. they're all about his time in private businesses, time as a private citizen, but nevertheless, the republican party is picking up the tab and paying his legal fees in that investigation anyway. maybe he's poor now and can't pay for himself, so it's charity. i don't know.
those new york cases still have an act of grand jury hearing from witnesses in case there was doubt about that, editor at forbes magazine said he was called to sit before the grand jury at the case yesterday in manhattan. this decision by the national republican party to pay trump's personal legal bills, it comes at an odd moment for the party itself. i mean the logic there is they want trump to be happy, right, so they give him money, i guess. they pay for things he would otherwise have to pay for himself as a private citizen because he's so important in the republican party they can't run the risk of alienating him or the party may collapse, that appears to be the theory of the republican party in washington, paying the legal bills of a very rich private citizen. trump's such a big deal to the republican party, they have to put all their resources, including financial resources to personally propping him up, or
the republican party will collapse because he's so important to them. just this week, there has been a whole bunch of evidence that undercuts that theory of the case. a bunch of evidence that he's not exactly super potent anymore when it comes to republican politics or even to his mauch wanted ability to separate their devoted followers from his wallets. trump, for example, agreed to do a four city speaking tour along with a man who was on the fox channel but was fired after revealed he and the network payed out literally 10s of millions of dollars to put out sexual harassment and abuse claims. you may have heard about this plan, speaking tour was announced far enough in advance it was way back in july when politico ran an article that the ticket sales for these events were very slow. the venues these guys booked for the speaking tour were having a
hard time selling the tickets. these guys responded by threatening to sue politico for the article, one trump spokesperson claimed at the time, come december, when the events were scheduled, all the events would be sold out shows and wouldn't politico be embarrassed then, well it's december now and the events started, one was in sunrise, florida last weekend. the sun sentinel reporting on how that went. many seats remained empty in the cavernous arena, ticketers were up greated to the lower bowl. the next night in orlando, florida had the same problem. quote, hundreds of seats for trump event were available in the upper bowl, when doors opened at noon, people who bought tickets to an upper bowl seat were told they had been up
graded to empty seats in the lower bowl. the closure of the upper bowl with tarps was similar to what was done at the previous trump/oreilly event in florida the day before. at the orlando event, the second in florida, that arena can hold up to 17,000 people for an event staged like that one was. trump bragged it would be sold out, standing room only, but of the 17,000 available seats in the arena, apparently he was only able to sell about 5,400 seats which means the venue was more than 2/3 empty. the next two events on the big tour are this weekend, tomorrow, and sunday, in dallas and houston texas. maybe he'll do better there. there are reports that the q-anon doomsday cult people who have been staying in dallas for a few weeks now, because they say john f kennedy and his son jfk junior are coming back from the dead and will reinstall
trump as president or maybe world king, those people have been in dallas for weeks, reports this week that all of those people are going to go to the trump event this weekend. so maybe that will fill out the crowd. that said, there have also been reports this week that the dallas q-anon jfk/trump people doing seminars on telegram this week on the benefits of drinking their own urine. so i don't know if that all happens before they go out in public, but maybe that puts a crimp in the plans, i don't know how that affects you. i say this only because i think there's a disconnect. sorry, that last point just, i was going to say let it wash over you, but don't. i'm sorry. excuse me. i say this, i bring this up, because i do think there is a disconnect between how this guy is now operating in the real world now and the kind of
deferance he is getting from the national republican party. i mean he's not selling seats to his supposedly fervent faithful, also striking out on endorsements. the national inquirier had good reporting, the national journal reported, is all true, the headline, quote, too big to fail. trump's endorsements risk diminishing political clout, already 0 for 2 in political endorsements this year with several other candidates failing to meet expectations. the article of the national journal goes on to explain that trump's endorsed senate candidate in pennsylvania has dropped out of the race. trump's endorsed senate candidate in alabama looks like he's falling behind another republican candidate there. trump's endorsed congressional
candidate in a texas special election earlier this year, that candidate lost too. there is this beltway common wisdom of why republicans have to robotically repeat trump's toxic wingnut bowl pucky stew about him not really losing the election and the election being stolen, right? supposedly all republicans have to repeat that, have to endorse that craziness, because otherwise, trump will turn against them and endorse someone to run against them and that will end their careers. even if that were true, would that be the worst thing in the world? but it doesn't look like it's true. so far in the real world, his endorsements aren't working. they're not doing much. not moving the needle, not just general elections but republican primaries where he's supposed to be the end-all, be-all, right? and that losing streak extend to see an even more republicans-only exclusive environment where he has been trying to throw his weight around, hammering away at it for
months, in this case with support from those most supportive in the conservative media, but again, impotent. it's not working. here's the headline at politico.com today. gop blows off trump's bid to oust mcconnell, despite months of attacks, the campaign to depose, remains critical of mcconnell for declining to help him overturn the results of the election, has ramped up calls for the kentucky republican's ousting from leadership positions. mcconnell, how this guy can stay as leader is beyond comprehension. this is coming not only from me, but virtually everyone in the republican party, trump wrote on thursday. he is a disaster and should be
replaced as, quote, leader, asap oh, coming from everyone in the republican party? well it is coming from trump and friends. attack have been amplified by fox news hosts tucker carlson and sean hannity who have gone after mcconnell on the air. ashow, announcing would go on regularly highlighting problem against mcconnell. but inside the capitol, conservative senators shrug the question, revealing a lack of appetite even among the gop's antiestablishment wing and continued support for mcconnell as a leader. antimcconnell sentiment has yet to become a dominant theme on the campaign tread ahead of 2022 elections. republican campaign staffers said only candidates received
one or two questions about mcconnell. like i said, it's just impotence. irrelevance. impotence. political impotence. can't sell seats. his endorsed candidates lose. his demands to throw people out get met with a shrug even with a fox news boost. impotent, soft, increasingly politically irrelevant which does raise questions why that private citizen, a billionaire after all is having his personal legal billed paid by the political party, particularly with signs the legal bills will keep going up and up and up. that deflation of his political potency, contrary to everything you're hearing in the beltway press, his political potency has booped and that comes at a time when consequences loom larger and larger everyday and this is serious stuff.
in the january 6 prosecutions, one man who confessed to using multiple weapons against police officers on january 6, a fire extinguisher he unloaded on them, through at them and when it can came back, through it back again which through a metal pole at police officers, a wooden plank he got ahold of and through like a spear at police officers. that man received the longest sentence yet handed down against anybody who participated in the capitol attack, more than 5 years in federal prison. i read this from the court transcript of his sentencing today. the judge in his case is responding here to to the defend having claimed at his sentencing hearing even though he is sorry for what he has done, he shouldn't got too harsh a sentence, because he was a nobody. he was a footsoldier, just listened to the pleas and cries and rallying calls to do this. he wasn't anybody who organized the attack and the harshest punishment should be saved for
them. that's the argument he made at the sentencing. the judge in his case today said this from the bench before handing down his sentence of more than five years in federal prison. quote, he went to the capitol because despite election results clear cut, and the courts around the country rejebted the challenges to the election, mr. palmer did not like the results and didn't want the transition of power to take place because his guy lost, and it is true, mr. palmer you made a good point, that the people who exorted you and rallied you to take action and to fight, those people have not been charged. that is not this court's position. i don't charge anybody. i don't negotiate plea offers, i sentence people who have pleaded get or been convicted. the issue of who has or not been charged is not before me. i don't have influence on that.
i have my opinions but, you are correct, no one planning to take the capitol has been charged as of yet. but i don't think that fact means you will get a lower sentence. the fact is there are lots of people who agreed with you, who didn't like the results of the election, who felt the election was stolen in some way. they stayed home. you decided, of your own free will, to leave florida, go to washington, and go to the rally. that is your right. you are not being sentenced for your political views. when you left that rally and went to the capitol and saw what was going on and then engaged in combat with those law enforcement officers, that's what you're being punished for. so you have a point that the people who may be the people who planned and funded this may not have been charged, but that is not a reason for you to get a lower sentence. and indeed, mr. palmer did not get a lower sentence. he got the longest sentence anyone has yet had. and, you know, we took a look
back recently at the immediate aftermath of the january 6 attack and the questions that were raised then about, what that judge was talking about in the courtroom today, about potential legal liability for the people at the top, the people that exorted the capitol rioters to excite that day, as the judge put it in the courtroom today. this is two days after the attack in the washington post. quote, legal advisers to president trump and allies expressed increasing concern friday about possible criminal liability in the wake of wednesday's melee according to a person familiar with the conversations. trump told by attorneys he could face legal jeopardy for inciting a mob. again, that was two days after the attack. this was cnn in february, after the attack. quote, former president donald trump privately voiced concern in the last two weeks about whether he could face charges as a result of the january 6 riot he is accused of inciting according to multiple people.
trump has mainly been quiet since leaving the white house last month, silence in part related to those concerns, quote, he's worried about it, said one adviser close to trump. worried he was going to be criminally charged as a result of the riot. and, of course, talking about the immediate aftermath of the attack, this was one of the surprise lines of reasonings we heard from republicans at trump's impeachment proceedings when he was put on trial in the u.s. senate for his role in inciting the attack. >> was never meant to be the final forum for american justice. never meant to be the final forum for american justice. impeachment, conviction, and removal are a specific intra governmental safety valve. it is not the criminal justice
system where individual accountability is the paramount goal. president trump is still liable for everything he did while he was in office. as an ordinary citizen. unless the statute of limitations has run, still liable for everything he did while he was in office. didn't get away with anything, yet. yet. we have a criminal justice system in this country. we have civil litigation. and former presidents are not immune from being accountable by either one. >> didn't get away with anything, yet. yet. we have a criminal justice system in this country. that was mitch mcconnell's argument for voting not to convict trump in the second impeachment, but instead, to handle this through the criminal justice system so he wouldn't get away with it. well now that the january 6
criminal prosecutions are regularly producing courtroom discussions between defendants and judges as to whether or not the people who caused the attack will also be charged, now the january 6 investigation in congress turned its focus from hey, where did that riot come from, to, oh, that riot was one part of a serious, concerted weeks, if not months-long illegal plot to thwart the transfer of power happen as the january 6th investigation made that transition and started talking about criminal liability for people who orchestrated the plot, as people involved, yet another one today, are taking the fifth, are invoking their fifth amendment rights to avoid self incrimination for fear of their roles in that plot, are we in a place where something other than political accountability is back on the table and for real? we've been thinking a lot about that specific question ever since the january 6 investigation, raise the prospect of criminally investigating trump at the
beginning of this week. over the course of this week, we have turned behind the scenes to our friend chuck rosenburg for advice on this subject and i realize tonight we've been talking with him enough about that this week, it's probably time to share some of his legal expertise and take on this with you guys, because as chuck sees it, at least, the prospects are more interesting than you might think. joining us now is our friend chuck rosenburg, senior justice department and fbi official, thank you for all your help on this subject and thank you for agreeing to be here tonight to talk about it. >> my pleasure,rachel. it's nice to see you. >> you too. first, could you tell me if i'm getting any of this the wrong way around or if there's any part of this i'm framing in a way that's outsized or inappropriate at all? >> no, not at all. i mean, i think what you're saying reflects what the judge said and what many of us have been thinking. you know, if you walk past the bank and the plate glass window is broken, you would assume a
robbery occurred and would investigate it. we know that on january 6th, there was a coup attempt. in fact, i held out my dictionary to look up the word coup to make sure i was using it right, the sudden appropriation or take-over of leadership, that is a coup attempt, what happened, like broken glass outside a bank. and you got to wonder, if there was a coup attempt, is there an investigation of the coup attempt? i don't mean by congress, i mean by the department of justice. >> there is no sign that there is an investigation of the coup attempt beyond the people who physically put themself in battle with police officers or at least inside the u.s. capitol on january 6th. that said, the congressional investigation looking at january 6 we now know as one incident in a larger concerted plot to falsify the election results and overthrow the u.s. government. they are increasingly talking,
and liz cheney, the vice chair, increasingly is talking in terms that echo federal statutes about potential criminal liability for those at the top of the sort of, organizing effort there. she specifically named trump in conjunction with that criminal statutory language. is she stretching? is she reaching? or is the kind of implication she's casting there within what seems reasonable to you? >> it seems reasonable to me. let me give you a little bit of context,rachel. congress doesn't have the authority to prosecute anyone for anything ever, but that doesn't mean they can't talk about what happened. what happened appears to be an attempted coup. that authority to investigate and prosecute, not just investigate, but investigate and prosecute lies with the executive branch, in this case, the department of justice. so what liz cheney is talking about is exactly right. the question is, has someone picked up the mantle?
has someone picked up the baton? is there an investigation of an attempted coup? because it sure looked like, smelled like, sounded like an attempted coup. she's right to be talking about that, but she doesn't have the authority, nor do her colleagues, to do anything about it other than hold hearings and write a report. so the critical question, as the judge articulated in sentencing mr. palmer for assaulting an officer is whether or not those who encouraged and orchestrated and led the attempted coup will be held accountable, but don't put the indictment cart ahead of the investigative course. the question is, really, right now, is there an investigation? if not, why not? normally, when there's investigation, we start to hear and see reflections of it, when those are called to grand jury for instance, we haven't seen that yet. i'm not saying anyone shouldn't be charged with attempted coup.
i am saying they should absolutely be investigated for orchestrating an attempted coup. >> but when it comes to the actual criminal statutes in question here, obstructing official proceeding or impeding in impairing the lawful functions of the u.s. government, are those the kind of things that actually ever get charged? have those things a, been charged against the other january 6 offendents or otherwise charged as a matter of normal business within the justice department? or would these be exotic charges? >> i don't think there's anything exotic about it. they wouldn't to be appropriate for most of what the people were charged for in the january 6 riots, look, what those people did are awful. assaulting cops, battery, those are awful things and they should be prosecuted for it but let me give you an example that you will well know.
i think it was summer of ''18, when indictment of the internet agency, russian troll farm, for impeding the u.s. government, if you look at that indictment, the russian troll farm was charged with the precise statute you were just talking about. in that case, in the muller case, the russian troll farm was charged with impeding and impairing the federal election commission, the department of justice, and the department of state. that's not that exotic. i've charged that statute myself as a federal prosecutor for impeding and impairing the irs, for instance. and so, while it might not be appropriate for those assaulting cops, it would absolutely be appropriate for those who orchestrated an attempted coup. >> chuck rosenburg, former u.s. attorney, former senior fbi official, senior justice department official. chuck, your clarity is unimpeachble, forget the phrase, and always great to have you
here. thank you for your clarity, your help over the course of the week. thank you for being here tonight. >> my pleasure, thank you. >> much more to come here tonight, stay with us. fight back fast with tums chewy bites. fast heartburn relief in every bite. crunchy outside, chewy inside. ♪ tums, tums, tums, tums ♪ tums chewy bites are you tired of clean clothes that just don't smell clean? what if your clothes could stay fresh for weeks? now they can. downy unstopables in-wash scent boosters keep your laundry smelling fresh waaaay longer than detergent alone. pour a cap of downy unstopables into your washing machine before each load. and enjoy fresher smelling laundry. if you want laundry to smell fresh for weeks make sure you have downy unstopables in-wash scent boosters.
shop online for downy unstopables, including our new, lighter scent. as a professional bull-rider i'm used to taking chances. but when it comes to my insurance i don't. i use liberty mutual, they customize your car insurance, so you only pay for what you need. wooo, yeaa, woooooo and, by switching you could even save 665 dollars. hey tex, can someone else get a turn? yeah, hang on, i'm about to break my own record. yeah. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty, liberty, liberty, liberty. ♪
(vo) for fourteen years, subaru and our retailers have been sharing the love with those who need it most. now subaru is the largest automotive donor to make-a-wish and meals on wheels. and the largest corporate donor to the aspca and national park foundation. get a new subaru during the share the love event and subaru will donate two hundred and fifty dollars to charity.
hey, angie! you forgot your phone! hey lou! angie forget her phone again? yep. lou! mom said she could save up to $400 on her wireless bill by switching to xfinity internet and mobile. with nationwide 5g at no extra cost. and lou! on the most reliable network, lou! smart kid, bill. oh oh so true. and now, the moon christmas special. gotta go! take the savings challenge at xfinitymobile.com/mysavings or visit an xfinity store to learn how our switch squad makes switching fast and easy this holiday season.
last night on this program talked with new hampshire democratic senator maggie hassen, her decision, yesterday, she's going to support, with voting rights. voting rights legislation is currently blocked by republican filibuster, senator hassen announced yesterday for the first time she supports a carve-out to the rule so they can pass with a majority, just 50 votes, rather than finding 10 republicans to vote with them, which on voting rights is something that will not happen. so we've talked about this for a long time. senate democrats voting to pass,
as voting rights are changing throughout the country. we've been reporting on this so long, it's like we're watching grass grow but you know what, the grass has grown. the progress has been slow but there has been progress. we've watched as slowly, one after another, moderate democrats like maggie hassen have come to the conclusion, voting rights and protectic democracy is a more important imperative and now support exception to those rules, specifically for this thing. even in west virginia, conservative democrat joe manchin, working on these rules, with other senators, appearing to maybe not be so deadset against it anymore, who knows, it's joe manchin. but something happened today which has never happened before in this process, which looks like potentially genuine momentum on this. nbc news reports today that the
for the first time, a democratic senator has presented the plan for how to do it. how the filibuster could be tweaked to allow voting rights to pass. a senate, democratic lunch yesterday, virginia senator tim cain reportedly presented an actual, practical plan. the plan, to get this done. it would involve resurrecting some version of the talking filibuster, in other words if a minority of republican senators wanted to block a vote, they would have to actually hold the floor and refuse to stop speaking for a very long time, a little more like what was made famous in the movie mr. smith goes to washington, right? at the end of a very long time being set aside for that real talking filibuster, then, the vote would go ahead and a 50-vote majority could pass the bill. so that happened yesterday. the actual plan, put forward by tim kaine, this is how we could do it. well today, nbc news reports that democrats held a special
caucus meeting, all democratic senators were invited to know there to talk about moving ahead with this plan. for that meeting, this is interesting brought in not one, but two guys named marty and these martys are the world's basically two greatest known experts on how the rules of the senate works. one of the martys worked for senate republicans for decades, the other marty worked for senate democrats for decade, again, no one knows more about senate rules than these two senate staffers from both sides of the aisle. senate democrats talking through not just how important this is, and if they're going to do it, but how to do it. which is something, we've been watching grass grow all year long. the grass is suddenly a lot higher than it was before. one of those two greatest living experts on the united states
senates rules is going to join us here live, next, fresh out of those discussions, today. stay with us. [uplifting music playing] ♪ i had a dream that someday ♪ ♪ i would just fly, fly away ♪ tums vs. mozzarella stick when heartburn hits, fight back fast with tums chewy bites. fast heartburn relief in every bite. crunchy outside, chewy inside.
♪ tums, tums, tums, tums ♪ tums chewy bites for people living with h-i-v, keep being you. and ask your doctor about biktarvy. biktarvy is a complete, one-pill, once-a-day treatment used for h-i-v in certain adults. it's not a cure, but with one small pill, biktarvy fights h-i-v to help you get to and stay undetectable. that's when the amount of virus is so low it cannot be measured by a lab test. research shows people who take h-i-v treatment every day and get to and stay undetectable can no longer transmit h-i-v through sex. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects include a buildup of lactic acid and liver problems. do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your doctor about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b, do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your doctor. common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache. if you're living with hiv, keep loving who you are.
and ask your doctor if biktarvy is right for you. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ experience the power of sanctuary
at the lincoln wish list event.
it all started with a job in the congressional post office in 1975, such a great story. martin payoni getting his master's degree at georgetown, needed to make ends meet so needed a side job, ended up taking a job in the house of representatives post office. sure, why not. when that job ended, said he saw a sign on a bulletin board that said, quote, parking lot attendants wanted, $5/hour, must be polite. well mr. payoni was polite, and $5 an hour was a lot at the time so he got that job and was referred to as, quote, a vehicular replacement specialist, in the united states
senate parking office. those two jobs, post office at the house, parking at the senate, were the two first two unlikely stepping stones to what would be a very accomplished, basically unparalleled career in the senate spanning three tech aids. ultimately held for years a very important job, almost no one outside the senate has heard of. he was democrat senate secretary, which means basically he was the floor manager on the democratic side, how to draft bills, going over the procedure, describing for the new guys how the chamber works, basics like how to expect votes, how to schedule around it and all that, but also became adviser to the democratic leadership. as one said, describing what comes on the floor, gets off the floor, what gets amended or not. he was so good at his job, after
he left the senate, mr. paone was scooped up by the obama administration to serve as senate liaison, knowing they would need somebody seasoned to navigate congress and everybody agreed mr. paone knew the senate rules better than anybody on earth. so it makes sense that marty paone would be the guy who senate democrats called on today for advice. and perspective, as they decide a way forward to possibly change the senate roles to get voting rights passed. former liaison for obama administration, senior adviser for the policy group. thank you for making it down here tonight. >> oh, thank you for having me,rachel. >> i know that there are things about your discussions with senate democrats that you are not going to tell me, but i was hoping you might be able to describe what you were asked to
come do today. what about your expertise did they want to tap? >> well, certainly schumer had been working on this for quite a long time and trying to get some movement on the voting rights bill, and he's come close, as you noted, senator kaine unveiled a package of possible changes. and they're getting closer. and so they asked me to come in and talk to members about, you know, what the place was like and how much it changed over the years, and whereas, you know, like it used to be a much more wide-open senate, where members could walk in and offer amendments of their choice and they would get majority votes, you know, feinstein, some of feinstein's assault weapon ban in '94 was passed, i think, with 52 votes. no closure necessarily, now, unfortunately, you need closure on everything pretty much unless it's a reconciliation bill and,
you know, it's a much more closed environment. and so he was asking me just to bring in, come in and talk with the members about the changes that they've, that are happening over the years and how these potential changes that they'd like to do might impact the current senate. >> given that evolution that you were describing, and the way the actual sort of pattern and practice of the senate has changed over time so that there's this 60-vote threshold, this unspoken 60-vote threshold for almost everything now, do you think that democratic senators are on the right track? procedurally, not as a matter of sort of political opinion, but procedurally, do you think they're on the right track to think it may be possible to change the rules in a sort of one-off way? to make a change around this voting rights question that won't necessarily have a cascading effect or the kind of slippery slope effect that
senator manchin has said he is so opposed to, in terms of fundamentally altering the way the senate operates? >> well, whatever change they make, the opponents will say that you have made such a change, you know, irreversible, altering the senate. and they don't necessarily have to make it to apply just to voting rights. they could do a generic change, that voting rights would be the first to benefit from. and these are questions they're still dealing with, and we'll see how it comes out. >> in terms of the sorts of objections that some senators have raised, moderate senators in particular have raised, saying that they don't want the senate to become like the house, that the filibuster rule in the senate, like it or hate it, it has an effect of promoting bipartisanship and comedy and,
and sort of concilliation between the parties, compromise between the parties. is it in your mind that is true? is it the practical effect of those rules, as they have changed, over the years, as you were describing a moment ago? >> it may have been -- it probably was true in another era. like, if you look at the '64 civil rights act, that bill was on the floor for many weeks and it was opposed by a lot of like 18 democrats, 1 republican. it was supported by derkson, a republican leader, but derkson still, and some of his colleagues had a problem with how dry the bill was so it was on the floor for 50 days, after 54 days, humphrey and derkson work out a compromise that net some of their fears or concerns
and they accepted, they offered that as a substitute amendment and were able to get closure shortly thereafter by 70 votes. but now, the bipartisanship, the parties have changed. in those days you had liberal democrats, conservative democrats. you had liberal conservative republicans. now it's republicans versus democrats. it's just the two teams. and, you know, there's very little bipartisanship that you're used to seeing. it's changed partially because of country and the hyper-partisanship. it's also changed physically in the sense that in those days i referred to senators lived in d.c. i remember when president ford died they brought his casket around. they used to live their with their families, and they weren't
criticized for it. now many of them senate members do not bring their families to washington like it's taboo for them. and it's really unfortunate because when they all lived here, they got to know each other. their kids went to the same school and they were members on the same pta. they even car-pooled some times. but those days, you know, have completely changed. and they now walk around with instant news on their phones, and it's a different era, which means they need different rules to deal with it. >> former senate democratic advisor, now senior advisor for the prime policy group. you're an invaluable source of institutional knowledge here.
nobody else knows it like you do. thanks for talking with us this evening. >> thank you. that's very flattering. >> we'll be right back. stay with us. we'll be right bak stay with us ing is freaking har. you get advice like: just stop. go for a run. go for 10 runs! run a marathon. instead, start small. with nicorette. which can lead to something big. start stopping with nicorette. ♪ ♪ ♪ hey google. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ with relapsing forms of ms... there's a lot to deal with. not just unpredictable relapses. all these other things too. it can all add up.
kesimpta is a once-monthly at-home injection... that may help you put these rms challenges in their place. kesimpta was proven superior at reducing the rate of relapses, active lesions, and slowing disability progression vs aubagio. don't take kesimpta if you have hepatitis b, and tell your doctor if you have had it, as it could come back. kesimpta can cause serious side effects, including infections. while no cases of pml were reported in rms clinical trials, it could happen. tell your doctor if you had or plan to have vaccines, or if you are or plan to become pregnant. kesimpta may cause a decrease in some types of antibodies. the most common side effects are upper respiratory tract infection, headache, and injection reactions. ready for an at-home treatment with dramatic results? it's time to ask your doctor about kesimpta. ready for an at-home treatment with dramatic results? when our daughter and her kids moved in with us... our bargain detergent couldn't keep up. turns out it's mostly water. so, we switched back to tide. one wash, stains are gone.
[daughter] slurping don't pay for water. pay for clean. it's got to be tide. is struggling to manage your type 2 diabetes knocking you out of your zone? lowering your a1c with once-weekly ozempic® can help you get back in it. oh, oh, oh, ozempic®! my zone... lowering my a1c, cv risk, and losing some weight... now, back to the game! ozempic® is proven to lower a1c. most people who took ozempic® reached an a1c under 7 and maintained it. and you may lose weight. adults lost on average up to 12 pounds. in adults also with known heart disease, ozempic® lowers the risk of major cardiovascular events such as heart attack, stroke, or death. ozempic® helped me get back in my type 2 diabetes zone. ozempic® isn't for people with type 1 diabetes. don't share needles or pens, or reuse needles. don't take ozempic® if you or your family ever had medullary thyroid cancer, or have multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 2,
or if allergic to it. stop ozempic® and get medical help right away if you get a lump or swelling in your neck, severe stomach pain, or an allergic reaction. serious side effects may include pancreatitis. tell your provider about vision problems or changes. taking ozempic® with a sulfonylurea or insulin may increase low blood sugar risk. side effects like nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea may lead to dehydration, which may worsen kidney problems. looking to get back in your type 2 diabetes zone? ask your health care provider today about once-weekly ozempic®. oh, oh, oh, ozempic®! you may pay as little as $25 for a 3-month prescription. ♪ i'm a reporter for the new york times. if you just hold it like this. yeah. ♪ i love finding out things that other people don't want me to know. mm-hmm. [beep] i just wanted to say... ♪ find yourself in these situations and see who you are. and that's just part of the bargain.
♪   something to keep an eye on as we head into the weekend. in phoenix, arizona, in phoenix this weekend these a big protrump conservative event. sort of a par for the course protrump thing with lots of hard right politicians and conservative media people. don trump, jr. is supposed to go, i think. that itself is worth keeping an eye on just because the group organizing this thing did brag about sending tons of buses full of people to d.c. january 6th. the reason i say this might be worth keeping an eye on this weekend is because walking distance from that gathering simultaneously in phoenix also this weekend is big white nationalist event featuring a bunch of state trump endorsed
political candidates and a few far right congressmen and people with links to white nationalist groups. we don't know about any formal connection between these two events in phoenix this weekend, but that is a potentially really toxic mix for the capital of arizona this weekend. so sorry to say it, but watch that space. ce s out it's mostly . so, we switched back to tide. one wash, stains are gone. [daughter] slurping don't pay for water. pay for clean. it's got to be tide.
♪ ♪ 'tis the season to break tradition in a cadillac. don't just put on a lightshow—be the lightshow. make your nights anything but silent. and ride in a sleigh that really slays. because in a cadillac, tradition is yours to define. so visit a cadillac showroom, and start celebrating today. ♪ ♪ just getting by. so visit a cadillac showroom, and start celebrating today. it's an ongoing struggle. that's why president biden and democrats in congress have a plan to lower costs for america's working families. lower costs of health care premiums. and the price of prescription drugs. pay less for electric bills by moving to clean energy. we do it all by making the ultra-wealthy pay their fair share of taxes. it'd be a win for the everyday american family.
right when they could really use one. congress, let's get this done. ♪ limu emu... & doug ♪ ♪ superpowers from a spider bite? i could use some help showing the world how liberty mutual customizes their car insurance so they only pay for what they need. (gasps) ♪ did it work? only pay for what you need ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ spider-man no way home in theaters december 17th
all right, that is going to do it for us tonight on this fine friday evening. i'll see you again on monday, but now it's time for the "last word" which tonight is hosted by the great and glorious jonathan capehart filling in for lawrence tonight. good to see you, jonath