universal health care but i don't think it will solve the problem of disinformation. and that's what we're facing here. i think we cannot let this pandemic get out of hand, we just can't. can't. >> we have to leave it there. elizabeth and adam, thank you for making the time tonight. that is all in. "rachelmaddowshow" starts now. >> good evening. thank you for joining us at this hour. happy to have you here. i cannot sing at all. you know how some people can like sort of sing and match a note or not carry a tune? i cannot sing at all. people cry when i try happy birthday. when i sing the national anthem, it sounds like i cry. the only saving grace is susan is equally terrible. we can sing together.
nobody else can hear us sing. because i'm terrible at that and astonishing, i never make fun of anyone else's singing. no matter what. ♪ god bless america ♪ ♪ my home sweet home ♪♪ >> that was the rendition of god bless america that greeted conference goers at the cyber symposium that is under way all week in south dakota. hosted by the ceo of the pillow company named mike lindell. you might have seen his name in the week because of the conservative trump appointed judge in d.c. allowed a massive multibill on dollar lawsuit to go forward against him and rudy giuliani and trump lawyer sydney
powell. that was filed by dominion voting systems. that company has been vilified by trump and suppsupporters witw that company was alleged to have lost and on then won. this week, that was allowed to go forward in federal court. his name has been in the fuse news this week as mr. lindell has spent every waking hour about the trump conspiracies about the election. i will say his take on it on this matter is a little bit different than the other trump surrogates who have been carrying this water all these months now. mr. lindell's standard line is everyone will agree and the nation will soon come together in you unanimous consensus.
they will rule on the issue and it will be ruled 9-0. trump secretly won the election is so incon tro vertable. all of the liberals in the media will come to the realization. cable tv news will see trump charge once they, like all of us, see and recognize the proof he has that trump won. he says that president biden and vice president harris will go along as well. they will not recognize, but graciously accept the proof that the pillow guy will reveal. this is all a big misunderstanding. the election absolutely went the other way. he says vice president harris and president biden will be sorry and leave office and
welcome back in the real president and emperor trump who will reunite the country because mike lindell has the proof that trump won. mr. lindell is the personal source of the claim that former donald trump repeats to others that lindell is the source of the claim that trump will be reinstated as president this month in august of 2021. that prediction that trump will be reistated led to the homeland security briefing sent to police around the country this week warning of a renewed potential for political violence in our country. by trump supporters who are expecting trump to be reinstated in august because the pillow guy company says it is true. therefore why shouldn't we all
believe it. beyond that, the bull's-eye he painted is getting smaller and more sharply defined. this week, mr. lindell convenesed the cyber symposium in south dakota which he said he will reveal the data that shows that trump won the election. the right-wing watch dog patriot takes which recorded god bless america, they also posted footage of mr. lindell on far-right talk radio saying he still believes trump will be reinstated this month, but it is actually tomorrow -- tomorrow morning he says is when the whole world, the country, but the whole world will have a
unanimous revelation. the morning of august 13th, tomorrow morning, it will be the talk of the world. hurry up. get the election pulled down. not that trump is coming back in august. tomorrow morning. the talk of the world. do you think? what happens if that's not true? where do you go with a failed prediction that specific? that sort of thing doesn't end well of it's not like you can weasel out of saying, i meant august 13, 2022. what are you going to say, right? yesterday the far right washington times newspaper reported that at the mike lindell cyber symposium in south dakota, mr. lindell's own hand picked cyber expert, some cyber security guy he hired to review his uncontrovertible date from the election. this guy in question is cited in some of the crazy trump election lawsuits. he's one of the people giuliani
and company relied on for their affidavits that they waved around saying they had proof of the fraud. this cyber security fraud is definitely someone on team wing nut. he is mike lindell's hand-picked expert to reveal this data. his supposed proof. all about the election being stolen. the conservative washington times newspaper is now reporting that that picked by mike lindell to look at the data. he looked at the data and -- the word you're looking for is sad trombone. wah-wah. you see the headline there from "the washington times." exclusive. the cyber expert says his team can't prove mike lindell's claims that china hacked election. here's the lead in "the washington times." the cyber expert on the red team hired by mypillow ceo mike lindell now says the key data that the theory is illegitimate.
mr. lindell said he had 37 terabytes. of irrefutable data or the proof, he said, which is visible in intercepted network data, or pack it, that it could be unencrypted to reveal a cyber attack occurred and votes were switched. but cyber expert josh merritt, on the team hired by mr. lindell to interrogate date for the symposium, told the washington times that the captures are unrecoverable in the data provided by mr. lindell, and that the data cannot prove a cyber incursion. so our team said, we're not going to say this is legitimate if we don't have confidence in the information. mr. merritt told the washington time on wednesday, the second day of the symposium. if you are someone confidently
predicting that some amazing but highly improbable thing will happen in the future. think hard about when you say it will happen. about how you're promising, in terms of how specific your time frame is. enough people are on this train, right? where trump has led them to believe he is still rightful president. the election was stolen and the evidence exists and it can be revealed and it will be revealed. if youshowyour work and put out your supposed evidence to be checked, those trump folks are being led off a cliff in terms of their hopes and dreams and expectations. and it is easy to look down at them form. easy but they're still real people who are invested in this and there will be fallout psychologically in terms of falling off this proverbial cliff. what will they do? i mean, this is the big reveal.
this is the thing they've been banking on against everybody on earth one, telling them something different. this is the thing they've been clinging to and it is now being revealed and it is nothing? what do they do in response? soul searching is not probably the answer. self-reflection, humility, those are not usually the first things that happen. but as noted at the "washington post" today, there was one really handy bit of confirmation in this proclamation from mike lindell's cyber expert that he didn't actually have any data proving the election. when he made these comments saying lindell's data didn't prove the election was stolen, lindell confirmed to the washington times the source of this supposed data on which lindell has built this whole conspiracy theory. these months of rantings and ravings and fake documentaries
and symposia and websites and exposes and all the rest including tremendous instatement and august fantasy. where does this date come from that he's used as the date for all these months? his cyber expert confirmed, the actual material that is the basis for these claims has been provided by a man named dennis montgomery. and i'm guessing you do not recognize that name but you might remember him from these headlines not long ago. the man who conned the pentagon. also, how a reno casino conman duped the cia and pulled off one of the most dangerous hoaxes in american history. national security intelligence reporter wrote a book in 2014 about this guy. it's about other things, too, but it was about conning people and conning the government out of huge sums of cash including him claiming that he could decode news stories broadcast by al jazeera and
inside those news stories, he could access magic secret al qaeda messages because he could find them in the pixels. he couldn't find them in the pixels. that was all made up. and it had been suspected for a long while. you see the date from the daily beast. november 9, 2020. it had been suspected for a long while that this legendary conartist had sold a new version of his con to the trump secretly won the election people. but now they have confirmed that is where they've gotten their so-called data. that's where they got this data that they had been confidently claiming that trump won and we will all see that data and it's so clear and say let's all get together and go to the new re-inauguration. so maybe we're not all going to wake up all 330 million of us tomorrow, you know, joining in a unanimous consensus rev place
revelation that the wrong guy is in the oval office. maybe that won't happen. but the consequences who really believe that will happen may be significant and may cause bizarre behavior. it may cause people to need help. i think it is an unpredictable moment in terms of people going down the qanon, trump election fraud rabbit hole. this next few days will be hard. the rest of the month will be hard but the next few months will be hard for them. watching it closely enough to recognize that, you know, it really is like a visit to earth two. pitiful and sad and ridiculous. it may drive consequences for people who have really been living this fantasy. but it is also driving real live events here on earth one. today citizens of mesa county, colorado, just found out they'll have to foot the bill for the elections equipment in their county. thousand and thousands of dollars.
of otherwise sound equipment. something that is not that old. some of it is not that old that now has to be decertified and cannot be used again because there's an elected county clerk in mesa county, colorado, who wanted to earn her way into a day one appearance at mike lindell's cyber symposium. a secretary of state investigation in colorado has found passwords for this local voting equipment in mesa county, colorado, were photographed and posted online on right wing blogs and all sorts of conspiracy sites, supposedly toshowthat china, china, something, something, pack it captures bamboo unclear. but as in arizona where they had to decertify machines and buy all new ones, because arizona republicans forced maricopa county to hand their election equipment to them trying to find the magic proof trump secretly won.
as in pennsylvania where they did the same thing and they needed to buy all new election equipment there, too. now in mesa, colorado, they have spoiled and therefore rendered decertified. the county taxpayers will have to pay to buy all new stuff because of elected republicans's will have to pay to buy all new stuff because of the republicans' eagerness to feed this nonsense machine.   and also the trumpy ex-judge who they have put in place to question and understood mine the wisconsin election results after biden won wisconsin, that ex-judge has so far spent with taxpayers' money to send him on a pilgrimage to arizona to go see what the cyber ninjas are doing out there with the mess they're making of that state's ballots and voting machines. not only did he have the taxpayers pay for him, it was
revealed today in the "associated press," he had the taxpayers in wisconsin foot the bill to send him to south dakota to attend the mike lindell symposium. god bless america because, you know, so much to learn. meanwhile actual elections workers all over the country are having to live and work amid this jet stream of sewage the trump folks are still spewing out about election fraud. the "washington post" reporting now the maricopa county supervisors who have resisted the cyber ninjas' nonsense, so-called audit out there, last week they were sent an orange guantanamo orange jumpsuit and a voice message that they were threatening to murder them and every member of their family.
it's so absurd it is collapsing in on itself, which might be dangerous in terms of the consequences for individuals who may have been living that fantasy, but it is collapsing. the arguments are collapsing. and in a good faith world, when the evidence underlying the so-called argument is revealed to be fake, the argument would then be lost. they're revealed now as false. the false idea of fraud in the election, the false idea at the heart of this con in a fact-based world would also collapse. but that is not happening. i mean even while the circus filter on this stuff becomes the laughing stock, it's something they plan to ride into power all over the country including washington. last night a texas state senator
stood for 15 hours in the texas state senate to try to stop the republicans from passing the latest version of their anti-voting bill. for 15 hours she did not sit down, eat, drink water bs go to the bathroom, lean on anything. about halfway through the whole thing she did put on a back brace on, put a back brace around her waist so she could stand on her feet. as she wrapped up before 9:00 a.m., her colleagues gave her a standing ovation for standing on her feet. literally minutes after she left the floor, the republican senators in texas passed their anti-voting line vote to make it harder to vote. other members on the other side of the house have been mounting their sort of delay tactics for
weeks. dozens of texas democrats from the house left the state entirely to deny the house quorum so that they couldn't pass the anti-voting bill through the house side of the texas legislature like they did last night. some of those democrats have since returned home. the republican house speaker as we found out last night signed warrants for their arrest for not showing up to work all this time. yesterday one of those democrats back in austin, he secured a court order shielding him from being arrested. today 44 of his colleagues requested similar orders from the same court to prevent their arrest as well. it seemed like that effort was going succeed. but look what happened. a texas supreme court justice has undone that initial order which opens the texas democrats back up to being arrested at any time unless they return back to work so the republicans can pass the quorum to pass through the house to make it harder for
people to vote, the same one after that 15-hour effort by that one texas senator to try to hold it up. what else can they do. these anti-small deed democracy efforts we've seen all over the country this year, they're not just about making it harder to vote. it's about manipulating the elections itself. abc news revealed bills that the republican legislators have passed this year. what we found was startling. i did not expect the number to be this high. abc identified nine different states, nine states, that have stripped the power of overseeing elections away from technocratic non-partisan parts of state government and instead handed the administration of the elections over to partisan actors, essentially passing a partisan takeover of the administration of !#c0vç%eyç ze right? how the votes are tallied, who
decides which votes are counted, kp29 that shift hasñi happened in ni states already this year, all legislators, all5,fñ signed by republican governors. those are done, nine of them, on themy books.w3 and, you know, things that we're talking about, bottom line standards, protecting the right to p,?uote keeping partisan influence out ofko0d
landmark voting rights bill passed by congressçó this year.q of course, the for the people act was dead on got to the senate. they guaranteed it would never get any votes to pass. r(t&háhp &hc% kind of legislation to backstop voting, to codifyfá protections around voting, that pressure ñi remains )n- is in some ways increasing. house, family members of the late great rally to end the filibuster so democrats can pass the votingxd rights legislation even if they get zero votes. the "washington post" reports tort at the end ofçó the month there tns& be more than 100 nationwide marches on voting rights organized by more thanjf d country. the group that convened the protest outside the white house with john lewi+-j family, they told us there willñi bexd civil3
disobedience including white house before the end ofñiok the month. senate democrats say when they returf,z their very first thing on theçó voting rights to work- legislation, but weçó won't kno what will be in it since it was stopped. this fightc isi]fá joined, absoy joined in the states, and republicans don't care that the basis for themt(çó fighting har than they have in the past generation to restrict voting rights and to take overxd the administration of elections is basedxd on absolutely cuckoo fo cocoaçóñixdxd puffs conspiracy its own venues at this point. republicans don't care. even if it takes terrorizing takes buying into these conspiracy theories that they won't otherwise defend that are at the heart of@ugqxdfj$uu)jt cm that it somehow needs to be
)ú nged. thet(r republican side at full tilt.c on t fight isx:zezxdr at the helm oflp that fight are some of the most important and influential figures bothxd in democratic politics and in ther u.s. government including4cv for u.s. attorney general eric holder who's going to be our guest right here next. stay with us.jfxd here next. stay with us.jfx



back in march, no favoring or xddisfavoring of political parties. the plan enacted by thejf state % basis unduly fabering or disfavoring any political party. that piececjtfá ñ part of h.r. 1, the for the people act.c it'sçóok a ban on partisanxd gerrymandering so nofá state wod be able to draw itsjf districts for elections in a way that'sts designed to benefit one particular party. boy, that wouldfá ber ther originallyokccw3 constructed wa( tolp put ax&t=a with that language in it, everyone in the housexdw3 voted against it.xd."
it failed.clpnr(t&háhp &hc% it failed.clpnr(t&háhp &hc% well, nw. allt( democrats,c joe manchin, raphael warnock,t(hw amy r they say there will beñr a slimdown of the bill. joe mxkájzs7 says he is absolutelyfá convinced he'll ge republicans to vote for it. whatever that:legislation s it is keyed up to be job ouhc for thexd united states sena they come back into session. that said, they're not coming back into session until mid-september, which feels like a long ways away,ñi given the rh where even texas, as we speak, will roll backe1 voting rights d seize party control everywhere they can and as fastr can.lp and this fight,çó at least this hope for a fight, happens as today we got the first data from last year's u.s. census, which
partisanokg they'll redraw districts to benefit republican elections. when republicans have power to a lesser çódegree, they'll draw power to reduceq democrats in elections.ó[7(prhf1 o we know some of the top lines. the absolute number of white people in theñi country has decrsb)edxd for the first time ever. that information is superimportant. itlp ñimatters. it's interesting. it drives some people crazy, i know,>"+t understanding how it will now be used to alterxd our political landscape for the next decade, that's worth considering and that fight is live. joining us now is eric holder, the former attorneyko general under barack obama and now the chairman of the democratic redistricting committee. thank yoyr for joining ña5ey >> it'soo: good to see you, toorrachel. thanks for having me.
>>ñifá i'm struck by the democr big proposed reform onxd votingh rights, which is how a lot of us have shorthanded it for thexdok the people act that notw3 only that we think of in ax> yes. it deals with dark money. it deals with voter cprotection and it also deals with endsxdfá parti+a if you deal with those three problems, you make the nation d you make our politicalxd system more responsive to the people of thefá country. you have a better democracy and better cñir that's why i'm supporting it. myc conversations wi(# schumer and other people madefát
ju)uv for it. senator schumer thinks there's a processxd to maximize passing tá bill. we'll see what happens. at the end of the lpday, it's going tot( ck a b1n this pro-democracy bd andfá defending anfáok arcane senate procedure that in the past has been used to frustrate civil rights legislation. that's the choice that democratic senators are ultimately going to have to make. >> do you think that ultimately it gets passed because ofq a ultimately gets passed because republicans somehow see the light? itxd seems like those are the oy two options and thelpxd latter s responsible. >> yeah. i don't think you're going to get ten republicans to vote for the bill in whatever sense it's presented to them. i feel a sense oflp cautiousok optimism. i mean t numbers that we saw
todaa shows that the country isk younger, it's more diverse, it's more urban,xd more suburban, le rural. those numbers should be used in a way that coms up withfáxd representative cdemocracy. + iieqw> let ?ep ask you a strategic question. if the protections like you're talking about in thee1 for the people act don't pass and so legislatures like the ones you werer like texas, florida, georgia, where republicans have their
have the state house, theys7 ta this jayd gerrymandering, theyr gerrymandering, theyr extreme measure to lock out( possibility of doing that in those states, it may be enough. it's been argued this year it may be enough for republicans to take control of the ho?páq in tá midterm elections that they aggressively gerrymandering it that much. if there's a ban on doing that sort of thing, shouldn't democrats do the same thing? shouldn't they press advantage where they've got control of the legislature and government to maximize the number of democratic seats? >> youñr know, that's the?;úpqp of the position the democrats have. if we fightñi for fairness, if make sureq that we get the numbr of seats that we're entitled to in both the state legislature a fair criteria, democrats and progressives will do justlp fin but republicans have to cheat in order to win, so, yeah, they'll try do what they can in texas,
florida, north carolina. they'll bring raced theq qmargin. the constitutional amendment in florida we'll use in litigation as well. but there's no need for democrats to do anything other than to fight for that which isó fair. if you fight fair and if we arei] successfuln that fight, democrats will do, as i said, just fine. we don't have to cheat. order2tm win, and that's why they are in favor ofçóxd partis they know ifçó substantial numbs of people vote in this increasingly number,fá increasingly more diverse, rural america, that they don't stand a chance of winning. theyçó understand that. >> let me ask youçó what you ma as a former senior administration official, as senator obama, who's close tot(
vice president harris?jfxd obviously vice president harris and president biden are ve$gd much in support of reforms like for the people act and they call if a passage and advocated for it and made a public case for them. we know that, youríjju -- we've heard all the speeches, right? we know their position.áo@ k n=u see itok increasinglyok relentless focus by moralfáçó leaders on this issue who are getting arrested. people are ge4!ng arrestedlp at the senate office cbuilding, supreme court.xd we're expecting action this sum owner votingt( rights to accelerate to the point where there's going toxd be quite aok of civil disobedience outside off a moral alarm here. what do you make of thatok strategiup&ly as somebody who's been axd target and knows the people who are being targeted by theset( activists? >> power needs ducking without
demand. you do it by marching, t( voices. that's a really importó.u part of the thing i'm leading. we have a bigxdt( advocacy camp !o if we make our voices known, demand the kindçó of fair chang we're seeking, i think that will help in the process. you know, it'sc not going to probably move republicans, i'm goa that. on the other hand, democrats are going to have toe1 think to themselves do i want to be seen as the person like e1james's la, dennis t peopleñr before, who stood against the passage of civil rights bills? do i want to have that ase1 my legacy in raising the consciousness of people by arrested, by doing things that ended segregation. if you asked peoplexd back in t 1950xde1fáoksfá door you think s
going to bring downxd a system american apartheid? you may say, no, that'snbnot you shouldn't lose faith right now. citizens need to make a change. citizens need to be in thei]ó[o streets. citizens need to be calling for change, makeq our democracy mor general, it'sjf always an honoro thank you so much for joining >> thanks for having < me, rach   all right. much more ahead tonight. stay with us. right. much more ahead tonight. stay with us


front desk. yes, hello... i'm so... please hold. ♪♪ i got you. ♪ all by yourself. ♪ go with us and get millions of flexible booking options. expedia. it matters who you travel with. my name is monique, i'm 41, and i'm a federal contract investigator. as a single parent, i would run from football games to work and trying to balance it all. so, what do you see when you look at yourself? i see a person that's caring. sometimes i care too much, and that's when i had to learn to put myself first, because i would care about everyone all the time but i'm just as they are. botox® cosmetic is fda approved to temporarily make frown lines,
crow's feet and forehead lines look better. the effects of botox® cosmetic may spread hours to weeks after injection, causing serious symptoms. alert your doctor right away as difficulty swallowing, speaking, breathing, eye problems, or muscle weakness may be a sign of a life-threatening condition. do not receive botox® cosmetic if you have a skin infection. side effects may include allergic reactions, injection site pain, headache, eyebrow, eyelid drooping, and eyelid swelling. tell your doctor about your medical history, muscle or nerve conditions, and medications including botulinum toxins as these may increase the risk of serious side effects. see for yourself at botoxcosmetic.com   myt( fáfriends, voter everywhere. as we drawr end, it is myc sincere hope tha civil acts by everyday texans
from the senate floor to thet( ballot?;box can help to shed th light on thefá all-importa issues.c instead oílp making it easier t vote, thisfá vote makes it easi to intimidate. n,'q cheat,ok itjf makes it harder t vote. >> 15r tha"=z is how long texas state democratic senate carolv managed to standt( up and there stop texas republicans passing ancçó anti-voting bill last nig( she stood and filibustered for 15 hours. for context, youé@ might rememb back in 2013, the nationwide sensation when then state senator -- texasñi state senato wendy davis5a made national ok." headlines filibustering ankoi]i anti-abortqf rqp"line.
that lasted 13 hours. las)k9% a filibuster in texas isc not like z filibuster in the u.s. senate these days which you can actually send inby email. in texas you havexd to standu■u entire time. carol alvarado maf:ed to do that last night. for soa5long. minutes after her 15 ended, texas went ahead and passed the vote anyway. ever since texaszv republicans have introduced that bill, texas democrats have made it their mission to slow it down. even if they can't stop it, they're at least trying to slow it down. that's ]h0 texas democrats from ouse led the state earlier from this year. as i mentioned earlier in theshow, that's why texas republicans are doing everything they can to arrest those house democrats so they can ram this voting bill through f.xd the only thing that itok seems could stop texas republicansw3
would make itñi harder to vote a state where it's already hardest to vote in the country is for congress to voting rightsprotections that wouldn't let any (q&ow them. texas democrats like senator carol alvarado areñi+doing everything they can to buy as much time as they can. obviously they're doing so atql great and visible personal sacrifice. jj senator carol alvarado. senator, i appreciate you being here especially because i knowo what you've been through forr t >> thanks for having me. >> haeo you r >> i've taken about an hour rest. a lot of messages and calls to return. and this -- when you finish this, you're running off pure adrenaline, so it takes a while to come down.r >> well, it was a okremarkable
feat. i have to ask you -- our office talked with youñi before this a you'reñi a pragmatist and you sd this isw3 intended to be somethg that would slow things down, nor stop it. dohyáu feel it was worth it especially now that youxd feel e physical pain of what you did? >> ):qolutely. i was demonstrating that i'mxd literally standing for democracy for 15 hours,xd but what's important to note here isxd tex democrats aren't taking this l!i there's a line we live by, don't mess with texas. so ilp say don't mess with texa democrats. just because we don't have thet and let them do whatever they want. this fw,%buster was meant to put the brakes on this and to shine aq national spotlight, andr worked becausew3 we're getting calls from all over the country while i wasi] filibustering. we were getting stories from
people on how this bill wouldq suppress?nu$$uk mainly from the disabled community and seniors.r >> in terms of how this is going to go from here, the other really dramatic news that happened in the wake of your filibuster today was thisxd rulg by texas supremecñp(zurt judge that effectively clears the way for your colleagueyñ democratic colleagues in thefñ$ouse to get arrested. it had been t8 court might have been able to block the arrestc warrants for them that the supreme courtjf h seemed to clear the way for them being arrested. how does that affect you and your colleagues thinking about this and what the options are and the stakes are for you personally? >> sometimes we think like the wild west. with actions like that, you kind íoáonder. it's been fortunate that theset issues have become so divisive, so partisan, and wer m$pll stems from the big lie told by the big liarsq
themselvesing and they have allowed themselves toxd bexd manipulated by him, and now it has spilled over not just to the texas legislature, but to so many. and what texasxd democrats wanto tell otherçó legislativer you don't have to stand andlp te it only if you have thelp ñinum. that's why we're doing everything we can tolp slow ite down, give everybody the opportunity to take a close eye to see what republicans are doin >> let me ask you about something that we're seeingb. happeninghj the --ñi we're seeig in r we're seeing it increasingly in states aroa the national level in washington, d.c., and that is, people turning to directionñr u action2@áqt taking to the stleets, people, including members of congress, engaging in civil disobediencer selma,fá.jñ montgomery-styleú
putting themselves in the public eye and puts their bodies at risk. ñ ask how that applies at t(texas, whether it plucks a people's heartstrings orñ hardes their hearts because they don't want to be associated with a cause that seems radical? how do you think those direct action strategies play at home in texas? >> i think it's demonstrated how serious we are aboutokçó stoppi this or slowing it down. i think people realize, too, that if we'reñi making sacrificf whether it's myself or making a sacrifice oft( standing for hours andr ñ members in thezv house, sacrificing their livelihoods, being away from their family, we want people to know that this is serious, and texas democrats have taken this debate to añiñi whole new level# alvarado,q i am track tore
beaming through the camerañr yoa çó ofñi tigerg liniment of your choice. i hope youxd can get some rest. thank you p. hope you get some rest. stay with us.



it may not be a surprise, but it is still at( shock to se the lightning speed att( which e taliban is continuing its advance inko afghanistan. afghanistan hasxd 34 provincial capitals. wfkq!4, taliban hasok seized control of 12 of them)in just the last week. the ap reported the grim newst( that they took control o3[ the second largest city, kandahar andkoe1 third largest, herat. speed at which the u.s. has to get out of afghanistan as wellz as ally troops and+ their
families, groups that work with they'll deploy 3,000qaqtñ troopk to afghanistan to aidñi in evacuation efforts, but with the second and third largest city in the couftu+jju falling, there's increased anxiety over the capital city of kabul andt( the fate of the large u.s. embassy there.ñi there's a security alert that they put out today. itxd ñiw3o[isays, quoter immediately using available commercial flight options. if you cannot afford to purchase an airlineñi ticket at this tim contact the agency for ar repatriation loan. you is extremely limited, even within kabul. the state3w department also announced today thatxd an unspecified member of the 1,400 americans who work at theñi
embassy areok being sent home i addition tot( those who may be the country for another reason. at least 14ñi willc be staying. the embassy will continue to operate. american negotiators are trying to extracti]w3 assurances from taliban that they won't attack the u.s. embassy even if they at thexd same time the "times" reporting they're holding a meeting on whether to evacuate or abandon the mjassy itself. it does not matter that this is not a total surprise. itjfbm4lp does nothing to to sh much of a shock it is and moral shock if these evacuations don't succeed. watch this space. watch this space

do you struggle to fall asleep and stay asleep? qunol sleep formula combines 5 key nutrients that can help you fall asleep faster, stay asleep longer, and wake up refreshed. the brand i trust is qunol. ♪ all by yourself.♪ - oh. - what? rain. cancel and stay? done. go with us and get millions of felixble booking options.
expedia. it matters who you travel with. it's taken a lot to get to this moment. expedia. ♪ grew up at midnight - the maccabees ♪ dreams are on the line. you got this. refresh... it all, comes down, to this. ♪♪
tonight. very happy to9w3 have you here. i'll seec youxd again tomorrow night. "way too early" is up next. ♪♪   thñ taliban is-9 making sweeping advances across afghanistan.?; this morning only añi handfulú government xdcontrol. the united statesñr is seiå 3,000 troopsñi back to theokñr to help with evacuations. the question is will we see the afghan government collapse within the next month?   plus, the supreme court deu&ines a request3w by colleger students to5a block the coronavirus vaccine mandate. impact will this rule having on similarw3 lawsuits?   and after months of public pressure, the father