great report, and thank you for this delicious, mineral-free recycled water. thanks a lot, man. >> cheers, my friend. all right, that is "all in." therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. good evening,rachel. >> you're such a good man and you're a dad, chris, and every once in a while we have to remind ourselves there is an eight-year-old that lives inside you. >> you cannot imagine the number of jokes i've made about this segment in a run-up to today and throughout the day and on the commercial break before this aired, it's been essentially nonstop. >> i know, i know. because i know there is an eight-year-old that lives inside you. not the part that drives and parents and runs yourshowand everything, but every once in a while, hi, little chris, here he is. well done, my friend.
i'm not going to make the obvious joke right now. thank you, my friend, much appreciated. thank you at home for joining us this hour. it was november 12th, last year, november 12th, 2020. election day had been a week and a half earlier, november 3rd, and we all know how that resolved. november 3rd was election day. by november 7th, every major news outlet had called the presidential race for joe biden. president-elect biden and vice president-elect harris gave their acceptance speeches on the night of november 7. on november 12, five days after that, the level of desperation from trump supporters who really did not want to believe this had happened, it was kicking up a new notches every day. by november 12th, things got publicly quite weird. at almost a new level quite
quickly. republican governor gohmert participated in an election integrity event. that happened on facebook. they brought to bat all their best stories, all their best fantasies about what had really happened that showed that joe biden hadn't really won, that showed how shadowing nefarious forces had made it look like biden won, but the real patriots were not fooled because they knew the real story, because hey, they heard it on facebook. on that facebook broadcast november 12th, these guys tried out the theory first that there was a secret supercomputer called the hammer operated by the deep state. i think the idea was maybe operated by the nsa. i could never totally figure it out. anyway, per their telling, the
hammer was a supercomputer that had the ability nationwide to switch all the real trump votes and fake biden votes. shadowy forces, the deep state. trump the head of cybersecurity had to put out a direct rebuttal to that craziness about the fake supercomputer. i remember seeing it at the time. you know, this thing actually from the real homeland security department saying, no, there isn't a secret supercomputer called the hammer that switches all the votes. i remember being mystified about what it is they were even rebutting. that is because clearly i don't have enough facebook in my life. or enough louie gohmert. the host of this november 12th facebook event tried out all these conspiracy theories, purportedly explaining how trump had secretly won, but it looked like biden won, but it would all soon be remedied. they tried it out with the hammer thing, they tried it out with what was then regular fare
for trump conspiracies, that the dominion was somehow controlled by dead communists, or are they really dead, how do you know, should we dig them up? they went through this whole thing about dominion voting systems. if it wasn't the hammer, it was dead communist control from beyond the grave of dominion voting systems. they went through all these things one by one. this was the time, right? total nonsense. but after they went through those two, the hammer supercomputer one and the dominion voting system secret secretly controlled by hugo chavez, who is dead. once you get through those two and you haven't got what you need, you need to kick it up a notch. and why settle for just continuing to spin everybody up into a frenzy based on your own unsourced assertions when you can source your assertions to a sitting member of congress who is going to come on your program, on facebook, and tell
everybody a whole new story that's even better. and that incidentally justifies even more radical direct action to try to keep trump in the white house. so texas congressman louie gohmert at this event november 12th, he comes on and says, i see your made-up supercomputer fantasy. i call your voting software, but i raise you. i have a new one. i raise you a u.s. army commando raid in germany that is going to fix all of this even though in my story the army are the bad guys. >> i had information from some of our former intel people that there was extremely compelling evidence that could be gleaned from sytel, s-y-t-e-ls-y-t-e-l.
that's a company headquartered in barcelona spain that could garner all the information from all the machines and whatnot. that information as to how many votes were switched from republican for democrat would have been easily established from the information that sytel gathered, and what were the votes going in and which ones were changed going out. it turns out i don't know the truth. i know there was a german tweet in german saying that on monday, u.s. army forces went in to sytel and grabbed their server. there are some that believe this is the u.s. intelligence that manipulated all this in order to cover their own rear ends. >> the u.s. army goes to germany and seizes the server from a
spanish company. because this is the server the spanish company in germany had used to switch in america all the votes from republican to democrat. it was the record of the whole thing. and the army -- see if i follow this -- the army got the -- went in, got the spanish server out of germany that was the server that somehow fixed the election that made it look like biden won when really trump won, and now the u.s. army has the server and that's good news? no, that's bad news because the army is bad here because the intel is covering their butts. what? that's the theory from congressman louie gohmert on november 12th. the military times, actually, did a great job telling how this conspiracy theory evolved in the month of november, so by december it wasn't just the army going in to seize the server
from this company. instead the server was being guarded at the cia facility, the cia was protecting it, and there was a firefight. on the other side of the firefight, there was a battalion working for sidney powell. that 305th military intelligence battalion, which is a real thing, went to germany with sidney powell and fought about how the election was stolen. and somehow through it all, the u.s. army soldiers, under the command of trump lawyer sidney powell, they were somehow elevated to special operations forces. and then the final -- as far as i can tell, the final iteration of it is that in this firefight where it was sidney powell's army commandos versus the cia,
multiple sidney powell-commanded special commandos were killed in this operation. at least five of them were killed and it was all covered up. their bodies disappeared. because what was on the server? well, trump world found out. turns out on the trump server, the server from germany, it was the real election results as seen on this map obtained by a dude on twitter. and as you can see in this map, donald trump secretly won the election with more than 400 electoral votes including the electoral votes in california which in reality is a state trump lost by nearly 30 points. but the secret server in germany tells a different story. of all the trump world conspiracy theories after the election, this one about the german servers and the military
thing was definitely the most baroque and maybe the most insane. and here's a sitting member of congress, congressman louie gohmert, permitting this, of course, on facebook, also on a conservative tv channel called newsmax. it was also featured on one america news. they even broadcast a picture of the map that was supposedly found on the servers that were seized in the raid. the map showed, among other things, that trump won california. the company that got hit with this conspiracy theory, the company that was supposedly at the heart of this conspiracy theory, they had to put out a statement. that must have struck them as insane to even have to write. they're like, number one, we don't actually tabulate votes in u.s. elections at all. number two, we don't have any offices or any servers in
frankfurt, germany, and why are they having to say anything at all? by members of sitting members of congress included, the conspiracy theory was that trump supporters, prayers for election integrity, which was the name of that facebook event november 12th. the contention here was their prayers for election integrity, their fight to make sure that trump's election was somehow secured and not stolen and allowed to be, you know, misrepresented by louie gohmert and the conspiracy theory. for trump winning the election is something that they kept under wraps as they grabbed the
server that wouldshowthat trump really won the election. that's what trump supporters were being told, that there was a military operation underway already to keep trump in the white house after the stolen election. this battle for truth is maybe already the start of a war. you wonder why they were spun up enough to do what they did on january 6, right? they had been told by them that blood was already flowing, that patriots had given their lives to stop the steal, that biden hadn't really won the election. with nonsense like this, bad di. that's the really serious part of it, as ridiculous as it is. the ridiculous part of it is still just as ridiculous, right?
one of the guys who promoted this both dangerous and completely ridiculous idea of this secret raid to steal the servers back from the cia in germany. one of the guys who promoted this concept specifically online is someone who runs a company called cyber ninjas. this is the cyber ninjas website. oh, boy. here we go. that's their home page. just rest your eyes there for a second. if you scroll down off that landing page, this is the next thing you get to. do you have a cyber ninja? i do. i hope he's not wearing saggy leather gloves while he's trying to type on my laptop while it's turned off.
a company run by an online proponent. they were seized and everybody died and it was covered up and we can't find their bodies, but we have the map which shows the server. the online proponent of that conspiracy theory runs this company cyber ninjas which has now just been hired. they have just been hired by the people of the state of arizona via the republican-controlled arizona senate. they are being paid with taxpayer dollars in arizona to recount all the 2020 presidential election ballots in the largest county in arizona. and arizona, a majority of voters live in just one county, maricopa county, where phoenix is. in november maricopa county and arizona as a whole voted for joe biden as president. as much as trump supporters may not like that, it's true.
there's already been an audit by a federally accredited firm in maricopa county, a forensic audit of the vote. there was a hand recount by four of which were republicans. they voted to certify that joe biden won the election. but not anymore. now in late april, the cyber ninja guy, the cyber ninja guy from the secret server in germany secret commando raid war conspiracy thing, arizona republicans sued to allow his company, him and his company, to have another look at what happened in arizona back in november. and they have actually turned over all of the real ballots, more than 2 million ballots cast in maricopa county, so the trump conspiracy theory guy, the qanon secret server war guy can see what he thinks happened so he
can give the real result from the arizona election. this is really happening. i should mention this cyber ninja guy is going to be working along another stellar choice of republicans, a republican state representative from arizona who personally went to d.c. on january 6th for the festivities there because he said he was a trump elector from arizona. trump didn't win arizona, so the electors from arizona were actually the biden ones, but on the day congress was certifying the election results and tallying up the electoral college votes, this guy went to d.c. as an arizona trump elector because he contended that arizona's trump electors should be counted because trump should be awarded the state's votes in the electoral college, so he was there that day. the count, you may recall, was delayed that day by the mob attack on the capitol which temporarily stopped the counting, but he was there in person so arizona would have its electoral votes counted for trump. he was there january 6.
and he's also now announced that he will be working on this recount of arizona votes that started today organized by the arizona republican state senate, him and the cyber ninjas guy who promotes the secret server in germany story. and, you know, joe biden is president of the united states. whatever they do in arizona is not going to make him not president of the united states. but what they are doing in arizona, what has trump world, like, electrified right now will have trump reinstated as president and biden as a usurper or whatever. what they started today at the veterans auditorium in phoenix is going to be used in trump world to try to claim forever that trump secretly won arizona and he secretly won the election and biden is illegitimate as
president. they will use that to contend for years. here we go. do you have a cyber ninja on your side? we are never going to get away from this mess. i mean, eventually we'll all get old enough that it will age out, but we are just never going to get this particular dollop of stink off our proverbial shoe. today honestly felt like a minefield of stories like this. i mean, hard-core trump world really does think that the election is going to be overturned because of the, you know, sidney powell, lynnwood qanon folks being in charge of all the ballots in maricopa. that really did start this week and they really are going to recount those ballots and never say what happened there. i'm sure we'll get it in a queue drop when it happens. that's what trump world is, and of course trump world is still essentially in control in the
republican party. but today felt like a minefield in terms of stories like that. these things left behind that we are still mired in as a country that we sort of can't escape the stink of as a country, even as the country is trying to take off in a different direction now. for example, today at the united states supreme court, the court, in its ininfinite wisdom, assigd to justice brett kavanaugh in a sweeping new ruling that essentially reinstates life without parole for kids. there was no life rule banning that sentence, banning life without parole for juvenile offenders before, but there was strong precedent making that sentence only available in very narrow circumstances. people who convicted crimes that occurred while they were children. life in prison without the possibility of parole for something someone did while they
were a child without the possibility of parole for life. you do something when you're a kid, you get locked up for it and there is no chance, no matter what else happens in your life, in your entire adult life, for you to ever see the uncarcerated light of day for something you did as a kid. i don't think they were trying to shove this into our unconscious right now. you may disagree. but to have it be justice kavanaugh who writes that opinion for the court? all this hand-wringing, right, especially from the conservatives about the perceived authority of the court, the pro ppropriety of th court, the esteemed member of the court, to have justice kavanaugh writing there is no bad behavior by a teenager that can be at least partially
explained by that kid being a kid? him? after his confirmation process that he turned into a theater of his own rage after being questioned of allegations of him for his oppressed behavior while he was a teenager. here's justice kavanaugh insisting it doesn't matter if you were a teenager, our society will now declare you irredeemable for the duration of your natural life for things you were found to have done while you are a child. you're concerned about the perceived legitimacy of the court? really, no other justice could have written that one? all three trump-appointed supreme court justices, because there are three of them, voted with justice brett kavanaugh on this, and it is trump-appointed justices that made a difference here, the justice that brett kavanaugh replaced, anthony kennedy, had led the court for pushing mercy to the court when it came to kids in trouble.
this was led by justice i like beer. today in the house, we had a rollicking hearing about why it is that u.s. taxpayers still pay tens of billions of dollars in subsidies to oil and gas companies. it's one thing for them to compete on their own terms in the marketplace, but what is it about oil and gas companies in particular that need tens of millions of dollars propping them up. that hearing today had lots of fireworks, and it was underway as the "new york times" broke this big story of how the military hunta that has just taken over in myanmar, the military dictatorship that is busy killing its civilians by the hundreds. the primary income for that military hunta in myanmar, at least until recently, has been a single oilfield, an oilfield in
which chevron has taken over. myanmar appears to be largely funded by this one oilfield that chevron is a part of. new lobbying disclosure forms from chevron just disclosed this week shows that chevron as a company -- again, chevron based in california has taken it upon themselves to become the lobbyist in washington against the u.s. government putting any sanctions on the myanmar military dictatorship. any sanctions that, of course course, might take a big bite out of the gas field there. it is the funding source that has overtaken the dictatorship in that country. democrats today in congress convening this hearing, doing this legislative work, arguing that the u.s. should maybe stop giving tens of billions of dollars in taxpayer money to
gigantic oil and gas companies every year, since, a, they don't need it, and b, why are we paying for that? and c, have you seen how they're behaving around the world? big oil and gas gets taxpayer subsidies. any taxpayer funds making it into the chevron lobbying budget that's trying to keep the spigot open for the military that took over burma because chevron is worried about anyone taking a bite out of their gas field there? are they seriously paying for that. the biden administration is trying to sanction the military dictatorship there to try to turn things around in burma. meanwhile they're taking u.s. taxpayer dollars, giving them to chevron which is lobbying to make sure that there aren't any sanctions that hurt them in burma, even though sanctions that hurt them would be the sanctions that would actually defund the murderous dictatorship. why would we pay for that?
why would we pay on both sides of that? the republican witness at that hearing today -- as i mentioned, this idea of stop subsidizing oil and gas companies, that's in the biden administration's legislative proposals, it's in democratic legislative proposals. that's why the democrats are trying to do that which is why they convened this hearing today. the republicans got to bring their own witnesses. they summoned their witness for today's hearing a representative from the petroleum industry who argued for the republican side that we as a country absolutely should keep subsidiing big oil examine gas companies. one of the republicans on the committee, republican congresswoman from new mexico, then expressed her own, in its own way, eloquent agreement with that, because if we didn't keep subsidizing oil and gas companies as a country, i mean, come on, man, seriously, what would happen to panty hose?
>> if not for fossil fuels, we wouldn't even have the capability of having these remote calls and talks right now because of the plastics and medical devices, eyeglasses, panty hose. >> panty hose. if we don't keep giving billions of dollars to chevron and exxon and all the rest, you guys, we might lose panty hose. panty hose. you ready for that? that was the republican contribution today on the issue of why you shouldn't just pay oil and gas companies when you put gas in your car, you should also have your government give them your tax dollars, too, because panty hose and other stuff. what a day, right? president biden hosted 40 heads of state today for a climate
summit. he made really big new commitments to what the united states is going to do to cut our emissions and get back to leading on this issue. the president's top adviser on climate change is gina mccarthy who is in this interesting new role under president biden after having spent the obama administration running the epa. gina mccarthy made some big announcements today along with pete buttegieg. gina mccarthy is going to join us here live, next. live, next
i'm greg, i'm 68 years old. i do motivational speaking in addition to the substitute teaching. i honestly feel that that's my calling-- to give back to younger people. i think most adults will start realizing that they don't recall things as quickly as they used to or they don't remember things as vividly as they once did. i've been taking prevagen for about three years now.
people say to me periodically, "man, you've got a memory like an elephant." it's really, really helped me tremendously. prevagen. healthier brain. better life.
want to save hundreds on your wireless bill? with xfinity mobile, you can. how about saving hundreds on the new samsung galaxy s21 ultra 5g? you can do that too. all on the most reliable network? sure thing! and with fast, nationwide 5g included - at no extra cost? we've got you covered. so join the carrier rated #1 in customer satisfaction... ...and learn how much you can save at xfinitymobile.com/mysavings.
it is not about the planet. it's about our future, our kids. it's the unwavering focus on the air we breathe and public health, the strength of how we can build our communities and make sure we're grabbing environmental justice as we move forward. it's what we value, it's what we care about and we have to deliver it. >> we have to deliver it.
that's the white house national climate adviser, gina mccarthy. you may recognize her from her time as epa administrator during the obama administration. but here she is today in this new role she now holds in the biden administration. she spoke today in washington along secretary of state pete buttigieg. they both appeared at an electric vehicle charging station to instruct reporters on biden's plan to put electric vehicle charging stations in the u.s. to try to move from gas-powered cars to electric cars. you need charging stations to make that viable. president biden has committed to cutting u.s. emissions in half
by 2030 as part of the paris climate pact. mrs. mccarthy, it's nice to see you again. thank you for making time to be here. >> it's nice to see you, too,rachel, and happy earth day. >> thank you very much. people have referred to you in the press as climate coordinator, climate czar, i've seen you referred to as the fauci of climate. partly because people are having a hard time settling on a title is because your role is new and amorphous. i knew what to call you when you were climate administrator. how would you define it? >> i'm working with a group working on how we can start reducing our gas emissions, because president biden has rejoined the paris accord, and we're really going all out to
introduce our emissions as a way to restart the economy, as a way to grab our future for the united states. we're going to invest in america again and bring back some good-paying union jobs and start looking at that clean energy future and how we win it for our country. it's an exciting moment, and we're doing a whole government approach. every cabinet member, and obviously secretary buttigieg is really interested in the transition of transportation sector. i'm hanging out with the v.o.e., tom reagan at the iep. every one of these cabinet agencies have a lot to offer about investing in the kind of future we want to hand our kids.
>> how much of that big goal announced by the president this week, this idea of cutting our national carbon emissions in half by the end of this decade, how much of that -- how much toward that goal do we get by the infrastructure bill? i know the infrastructure bill is a big priority for the administration, and i know the legislative effort to pass that is well underway. i believe that some version of the infrastructure bill ultimately will pass thanks to the budget reconciliation process, even if republicans don't come along. how much is that overall goal dependent on that one bill? >> well, i think president biden was really interested in moving that bill regardless of what our commitment was, because he saw it as being so vitally important for our economy and for, you know, the health and well-being of the american people. so it will be enormously helpful in accelerating this. but if you look at already available climate solutions, if you look at the ways that we can
move our country forward and reduce our emissions, we still will be able to get a 50% reduction by 2030 because clean energy is winning everywhere. you know, i know the prior administration kind of liked coal and wanted to favor it, but it had no impact. we had the biggest actual boost in solar and wind power the last year of the trump administration, and the republicans in that administration actually extended tax credits to keep them humming along. and that's because states and cities wanted it. it's cheaper. so there's lots of opportunity, but investing in innovation is going to be important. so the american jobs plan is a great strategy to actually move forward to grab that clean energy future. but on its way, it brings the best opportunity and hope that we have, really, to grow good
jobs, to reinvigorate our unions, to get the middle class where they need to be again, to move people out of poverty and really, very importantly,rachel, for the president and i think for all of us is to invest in those environmental justice communities that have been hammered by this pandemic because they don't have good housing, they can't get around on transit anymore, they're struggling to get food on the table. we have to understand that now is not the time to keep sitting around at everybody's kitchen table and talk about climate. but if you want to sit around that kitchen table and talk about clean energy jobs, if you want to sit around and talk about good agriculture practices, if you want to sit around and talk about really neat ways to clean the environment, that's how president biden thinks about it.
when you say climate, he thinks of jobs. and i think that's pretty great. >> white house national climate adviser gina mccarthy with a sprawling portfolio and a lot of the washington-earned skills that, if anybody can do it, you'll be the one to get it done. thank you for being here tonight. come back anytime. we'd love to have you back. >> thanks,rachel.   we've got much more ahead here. senator cory booker will be joining us live in just a moment. we have a lot more to get to. stay with us. o get to stay with us down inside ♪ ♪ it's gonna be all right ♪ ♪ all right ♪
♪ ♪ it's the biggest thing that ever happened to small. visit your local mercedes-benz dealer for exceptional lease and financing offers. you know it's silly six-foot five, three hundred pounds i ride motorcycles on the weekends. so the thought of getting a hearing aid, i was.. i was scared. with lively, did a hearing test on the computer, when they sent them in the mail they were already set up for me.
this little thing right here, has made me whole again. a test in minutes, hearing aids in days, better hearing in no time. get started today at listenlively.com the sky is the limit now, on what i can go do. fact i'm going to go riding (gong rings)d. - this is joe.
(combative yelling) he used to have bad breath. now, he uses a capful of therabreath fresh breath oral rinse to keep his breath smelling great, all day long. (combative yelling) therabreath, it's a better mouthwash. at walmart, target and other fine stores.
we've gone from all of these abuses from oscar grant all the way to philando castile right here in the minneapolis area. we struggled through all of that, but we are going to now in his name, in the name of daunte, we are going to pass the george
floyd justice and policing act as federal law. we are going to make it against the law all over this country to keep bringing us to funerals for our young princes. some of us are told to shut up and just be quiet. and you call that peace, but peace is the presence of justice. you can't tell us to shut up and suffer. we must speak up when there is an injustice. >> reverend al sharpton giving the eulogy today at the funeral for 20-year-old daunte wright who was killed in brooklyn center, minnesota during a traffic stop two weekends ago. the police officer involved in that traffic stop shouted -- we can see on body cam footage --
that she would tase young mr. wright. instead she shot him in the chest with her service weapon. this has been the backdrop to the george floyd murder trial that took place a few miles away in downtown minneapolis and earlier this week resulted in guilty verdicts of all three counts against the officer who had been charged for the murder of george floyd. several speakers today at daunte wright's funeral, that to avoid more funerals like this, we need the george floyd policing and justice law. we do know, that miracle of all miracles, there is some bipartisan negotiations happening to try to pass this. cnn reported earlier today that republican karen bass tried to
meet with senator tim scott and senator cory booker today for informal discussions about the bill. bass seemed to confirm that later when the reporter in the capitol said he saw republican senator tim scott, democratic senator cory booker and republican senator karen bass walking out of the elevator together. joining us, senator cory booker of new jersey, member of the judiciary committee. senator booker, it's really nice to see you. thank you for making time tonight. >> it's good to see you, too,rachel. thank you for having me. >> it feels like a very small miracle to be able to report with eyewitnesss that there are bipartisan discussions happening among three bicameral, bipartisan, very serious members of congress like you and senator scott and congresswoman bass.
that alone feels like a glimmer of hope that i'm not used to feeling. is it worth being hopeful about this? >> it definitely is. i'll confirm that we've been talking literally for weeks and those bicameral, bipartisan discussions have been really promising. we all have our lines. in other words, there are things critical to me to see in this bill, and we can't get it done in the senate unless we have republican support, and tim scott has been a good faith, honest broker in these discussions. so i'm very hopeful. but look, we are in a context, and it was very real with these weeks to see death after death of african-americans at the hands of police, and on top of that, the george floyd trial. so i think the sense of urgency is there to get real accountability in policing to ban certain practices with police, to get more data available to power more
oversight, so there is a lot of good discussions going on, and i think a sense that america needs something to get done. it will not solve all these issues, but it will be -- hopefully if we can get it done there will be a meaningful set of reforms that give us more strides toward justice. >> senator scott is a republican in the senate who refers to the speech we call the state of the union when he gives his speech to the joint members of congress next week. is it clear to you that senator scott is essentially negotiating with you and talking with you on this not just on his own behalf, that if he gets to a place where he is comfortable that he could vote on some form of legislation that you all agree on together that he will be bringing other
republican senators with him. >> tim scott is wise in this. he is trying to bring his caucus, and that's the challenge, for us to come to agreements that are worthwhile. i think he's negotiating in good faith and he is keeping his caucus informed and has the sort of auspices of the republican leader. so we are in a place now where i think all of us feel optimistic, but there is still some tough, tough issues to negotiate out. >> is there anything that right now you can tell us is a no-go place for you in terms of what must be part of this or it's not worth passing it? do you have bright lines like that in mind in terms of what's the minimum that has to be here in order to make this worth pursuing? >> i don't want to get into details to negotiate this in public, but i'll say this.
look, i watch a funeral like the one you showed with al sharpton, and i think what really hurts me is i've seen it before and before and before. i've seen the community where a number of young black boys are being put in boxes. it anguishes me to think about. so this legislation for me has to take strides towards saving black lives, to ensuring that we can stop some of the things that killed eric garner, like the chokeholds, or killed breonna taylor, like an unjust, in my opinion, no-knock warrant. we have to do something that maybe doesn't solve all the problems, i'm sure it won't, but can give us a sense of this replay we've been seeing over and over, the anguish, the pain, the scarring of our communities, that the moral injustice is that
we all can agree on should not happen. we have got to do something meaningful that makes that less likely in our country. >> senator cory booker, the former mayor of the great city of newark, u.s. senator from new jersey and a member of the judiciary committee, senator, always great to see you. thank you for being here particularly on this topic tonight. >> thank you,rachel. >> good luck.   we have more ahead. stay with us. in your hands or ? introducing nervive nerve relief from the world's number 1 selling nerve care company. as we age, natural changes to our nerves occur which can lead to occasional discomfort. nervive contains b complex vitamins that nourish nerves, build nerve insulation and enhance nerve communication. and, alpha-lipoic acid, which relieves occasional nerve aches, weakness and discomfort. live your life with less nerve discomfort with nervive nerve relief.
.
- [narrator] this is steve. he used to have gum problems. now, he uses therabreath healthy gums oral rinse with clinically-proven ingredients and his gum problems have vanished. (crowd applauding) therabreath, it's a better mouthwash. at walmart, target and other fine stores.

interesting to watch. you might remember about a week ago we reported this that hundreds of big american businesses like target and google, american airlines, bank of america, they took out a big splashy full two-page ad in "the new york times" and "washington post" declaring we stand for democracy. they promised in the ad that they would oppose any discriminatory legislation that makes it harder for people to vote. but as we have also reported,
those companies published that clarion statement at the same time that the biggest business lobbying group in the country, the u.s. chamber of commerce, which has many of the same companies as members, when the chamber was actively pressuring u.s. senators to vote against the big federal voting rights bill in the senate. so there is the chamber of commerce whipping votes against voting rights while the members of the chamber of commerce are taking this public stand in favor of voting rights. it's an awkward thing, right? it's a contradiction. well, now those big american businesses who signed that statement while also being members of the chamber of commerce, are being called upon to leave the chamber of commerce over this dies agreement on voting rights. a letter sent to the target corporation from accountable u.s. says, by continuing to pro provide financial and social support to the chamber, target is contradicting the pledge you,
and hundreds of other reportitions, recently made. similar letters were sent to 16 other members of the u.s. chamber of commerce who also signed on to this we supporting voting rights statement. these big american companies came out publicly declared they twant to be on the right side of voting rights. now they are literally being called to put their money where their mouth is on this issue. you can't be in favor of voting rights and be a member, a dues-paying member of this organization that is whipping senators' votes against voting rights. you can't do both. for these companies, this is a real test, a real choice. watch this space. and roofers. engineers and electricians. calling all brick masons and boiler makers. steel workers and steam fitters your country is calling you to rebuild america. to create a cleaner, safer, more prosperous future for all. tackling climate change, this is the job of our lifetime.
it's time to build back better. let's get to work.

want to save hundreds on your wireless bill? of commerce. of commerce with xfinity mobile, you can. how about saving hundreds on the new samsung galaxy s21 ultra 5g? you can do that too. all on the most reliable network? sure thing! and with fast, nationwide 5g included - at no extra cost? we've got you covered. so join the carrier rated #1 in customer satisfaction...
...and learn how much you can save at xfinitymobile.com/mysavings. i got my vaccine shot. i had the johnson & johnson one and done. as of today, i am fully perked. i celebrated by putting on my mask and going out and buying a coffee out in the world from a store. it was crazy. but i met a nice lady in line for the coffee who came up to me and said, we watch msnbc all the time at our house. we like your program, but mostly we like the thing at the end of the though where you talk to lawrence. that's what we like most of all on all of msnbc. with no pressure at all, that does it for me. now it's time for "the last word" with lawrence o'donnell. d