support for ending gerrymander and efforts at voter suppression. >> congressman adam schiff of california. that's "all in," "therachelmaddowshow" starts now, i'm on time for once. >> i'll never give anyone a hard time, i'm never on time. >> all right. >> all the more time to panic about what i'm about to say. never begrudge you. thanks for joining us. where to begin tonight, like the bad old days again. planning coverage and stories to cover and report on, booking reporters and guests, getting everything all set up, then kablooey, tear up rundown, start again, whole new plan and had to tear that up too. haven't had a night like that in long time but turning out to be one of those nights.
let's start here. if you were a second grader, say, and were trying toshowfor a class project that you had mastered a second grade level understanding of what corruption is, what it means to be a crooked, corrupt public official. one of the things you might conjure up from second grader's level understanding of that concept is hypothetically, you might have a person in the government whose job was they were in charge of road building projects. right? that person could not also own part of a company that was the country's biggest supplier of road building materials. right? if you were a second grader trying toshowyou understood what corruption is, that would be almost oversimplified example of what it means to be corrupt. being in charge of road building while also holding a personal
financial stake in company that does road building that stands to benefit from your actions as public official. you can take actions as public official to put money in your own pocket. that's second grader's understanding of corruption, oversimplified right? except in real life in the trump administration when elaine chao was appointed secretary of transportation, she was told by ethics officials she needed to divest, sell her stake in company described by "wall street journal" as largest supplier of crashed sand and gravel used in road construction and paving. as a second grader could tell you, as transportation secretary you have a lot of say in say roads. you can't also own a company that does road paving and building. chao was advised of course to
divest from the company. can't be transportation secretary and have stock in a road building company. was told to divest, said she would. "wall street journal" had the scope she did not divest, held on to the stock, tons of it. trump administration was always declaring it was infrastructure weak. every time there was indictment of trump friend, new scandal, worthy of another impeachment, declare infrastructure weak, even though the administration never done anything on infrastructure. but one of the material consequences of repeatedly declaring infrastructure week. every time they announced it would be infrastructure week again, stock market price went up for the company that chao was
stayed invested in, as secretary of transportation. nice gig if you can get it. in your hypothetical second grader project explaining to your second grade colleagues what corruption is, even beyond holding stock in the road building company thing. if you don't have faith in the second graders to grasp something that simpler, a simpler example, paragon idea of what it means to be a crooked public official. might imagine in your job as a public official, transportation secretary of the united states, you took official action, arranged official travel, meetings and photo ops to benefit your family business. is that even simpler idea of the basic idea of corruption? because in 2019 the "new york times" was first to report on a series of actions taken by trump transportation secretary elaine
chao in which she brought or tried to bring father and other family members involved in her china-based business on official u.s. government trips and for u.s. government events for official meetings. wanted to bring her family members who run the family business. on what would have been her first trip to china as trump's transportation secretary, there on behalf of united states of america as high ranking government official, tried to get the u.s. embassy in beijing to help her arrange meetings for her relatives going to travel with her on the trip who run the family business with extensive interests in china and want additional business from the chinese government. she wanted the u.s. embassy, the state department, to help set up those meetings for her family members as part of her trip
there as u.s. government official. and the person asked to do that for her family freaked out how blatantly unethical it was and squawked about it and ultimately chao called off the trip altogether. come on, trump administration had a lot of corruption scandals, this is the kind you can write in capital letters and fit on a bumper sticker. elaine chao quit the cabinet after january 6th. married to top republican in the senate, mitch mcconnell. the widespread and quite towering allegations of corruption against secretary chao while she served as transportation secretary, remember in 2019, the scandals were reported one after another. in 2019, five separate
corruption scandals were raging around her at the same time, most of which dwarfed the other republican scandals, which is saying something given the high levels of corruption in the trump administration. but interesting, senator mitch mcconnell and his wife elaine chao never seemed worried, never seemed to sweat any of it. mcconnell frequently joked about it as if they didn't have care in the world about it. now we know why. inspector general at the transportation department has released a public report on the matter, on the investigation that was done by inspector general's office at transportation department into multiple allegations of corruption against elaine chao. it discloses that investigators looking at corruption allegations found the
allegations to be substantiated enough and serious enough she was referred to u.s. justice department for potential criminal prosecution. she is not the first trump cabinet official this has happened to. by my count i think the fourth trump cabinet official that we know of, who inspector general investigators referred to justice department for federal criminal prosecution on corruption charges after they looked into serious allegations against all the trump cabinet members. that said, spread it around thick enough, seems like nobody ever gets in trouble for it. spot the pattern here. robert wilkie, trump veterans affairs secretary, investigated for corruption, resulted in referral to the doj, trump's doj declined to prosecute.
interior secretary ryan zinke, investigated for corruption. found to be substantive and serious enough it was referred to justice department for criminal prosecution. trump's justice department declined to prosecute. also trump labor secretary alex acosta investigated for corruption. found to be serious enough he was referred to department of justice for potential prosecution. the trump justice department declined to prosecute him as well. now four of them at least, now trump transportation secretary elaine chao as well also referred for criminal prosecution, and referred to trump doj on interesting time line before they too decided not to prosecute her. in this letter explaining the actions of their office, inspector general's office says they started investigation into
elaine chao in 2019 and decided some of the allegations were serious and substantive enough they required a criminal referral to the justice department and made that referral based on the findings of the investigation. made the criminal referral december 16th, 2020, when they referred her for potential prosecution to the u.s. attorneys office in d.c. following day referred her to public integrity section, actually the public corruption section at main justice for potential prosecution there as well. waning days of the trump administration, during the transition, a month before biden was sworn in as president, the trump justice department receives criminal referrals to potentially prosecute mitch mcconnell's wife elaine chao and quietly decline that's
prosecutions. what other president in one term was effective enough to have four different cabinet secretaries, at least, referred for criminal prosecution for corruption? and this isn't like somebody writing letter, i hate this guy, look into him. this was real investigation by inspector general professional investigators. and what they found was serious enough should be a court case, possibly a criminal matter, we have to refer it. that happening to one high ranking government official of any kind is a big deal. he had four in the cabinet in four years. that's like -- that's -- that's well, it tells you something about the trump justice department. that's exhausting amount of work for the justice department alone, kiboshing and turning down all the already investigated, substantiated serious corruption investigations of high ranking
officials in the government. must have been exhausting turning all of those away, one after another. when does merrick garland become attorney general? what is the plan to look into those years? is there going to be consequences for that? mitch mcconnell is still top republican in the senate. if any ilgotten gains from his wife's alleged corruption made way back to the family, at least we know they're staying close to the most powerful people in republican governance even today. just incredible. we'll have more with reporters who broke the most lurid facts about elaine chao coming up.   we expected the senate to take first action on the covid relief bill. didn't happen because of
procedural items in the senate. but we do know that mitch mcconnell and the senate republicans are going to string it out as much as possible, pull out all the dirty tricks to muck it up. forcing the clerks to read every word of the bill out loud and every word of every amendment and can offer infinite amendments. can take infinite time, going to try to slow down covid relief as long as possible with 20 and 30-hour marathon stunts on the senate floor. because it's not like the american people are in any hurry for covid relief. no need to rush the funding for vaccine distribution or reopening schools or relief checks for unemployed people right now. see how long we can stretch it out, maybe make it take weeks. other side of the capitol there is a rush on, a surprise late in
the day announcement from the house they're staying late and taking votes tonight on their big election reform bill, hr-1, for the people act. and policing reform bill. decided to rush to do both tonight, essentially so the house could not be in session tomorrow. reason they decided late in the game they do not want to be in session tomorrow is for security concerns. it is not yet two months since the january 6th attack on the u.s. capitol by the trump supporting mob, but the capitol police and house sergeant at arms and joint bulletin from homeland security and fbi have all warned that same kind of attackers might be coming back tomorrow, march 4th, thursday. that's what militia groups and conspiracy theory adherents have discussed apparently, trying to attack the capitol again, march
4th, they're fantasizing that's the day that trump will come back to power. why march 4th? it's the day u.s. presidents used to be inaugurated before they changed the date to january, i think in the 1930s. for several weeks now, even before the capitol insurrection, that quirk in history has made march 4th another day of focus for the extremists and cloud cuckoo land trump supporters and conspiracy theorists who think he's an emperor or something, secretly won the election and mike flynn and military are going to install him back in the white house and kill everybody else. incidentally, i want to note here, random and weird as unsettling as the conspiracy theories are about this idea that on something, march 4th for some reason something is going to happen to reinstall trump in
power and therefore might be another effort to attack the u.s. capitol. weird as unsettling as that is, far-fetched as it still feels after january 6th attack, you should know that trump hotel in washington, d.c., does appear to think something really special is going on tomorrow in washington, d.c.. this was first reported by the washingtonian magazine last month. but we checked today, still absolutely true, that the trump hotel has marked up its hotel rooms for tonight and tomorrow to nearly triple their usual rate. they're usually at $400, $500 a night. that's what they are the nights preceding march 4th and 5th -- march 3rd and 4th. that's what they're going back to next week and have been. but for tonight, eve of the 4th
and the 4th itself, trump hotel is charging a minimum of over $1,300 a room, then the rates go back down. why is that? well, fbi and homeland security are warning that tomorrow may be date of new attempted siege of the capitol by trump supporting extremists, and trump hotel has tripled the cost for hotel room tonight and tomorrow. why is that? not like something else is going on in d.c. to explain the hotel rates being jacked up tonight and tomorrow. we looked at equivalent hotels in d.c., four seasons or hey adams, their rates are the same as they always are. just the trump hotel if you're going to be in town tonight for something special tomorrow, they're going to absolutely get triple the money they usually would. it's special day for them for some reason.
fbi, homeland security joint intelligence bulletin says the trump supporting groups have quote discussed plans to take control of the u.s. capitol and remove democratic lawmakers on or about march 4th. remove democratic lawmakers, remove them from the capitol. really? lawmakers it turns out are removing themselves. doing two big votes tonight so they won't have to meet tomorrow and don't want to meet tomorrow because of the heightened security status around the threats that seem nuts and necessary. how undefended u.s. capitol was to disastrous effect the last time the nut balls said they were coming to install trump by force and then they did. today in the senate tried to get to the bottom of one of the vexing, worrying questions about what happened on the day of the attack. why didn't the police get
backup. when the trump mob started overrunning the capitol, overran the police and police officers were being beaten and gassed and having their protective equipment torn off and being dragged down the capitol steps and stomped and beaten with flag poles and bats, when police officials were begging for the national guard to come in and backstop them, why didn't it happen? senate tried to get to the bottom of that today. it was remarkable series of revelations. learned that d.c. national guard was told the day before the attack, january 5th, they were going to need special permission directly from the secretary of the army himself, personally, if they wanted to deploy a quick reaction force in case of attack. learned that the next day when the attack happened, they refused to give that permission for more than three hours when the capitol was overrun and five
people including a police officer died. request to send in national guard as backup languished for hours. hours. also got confirmation believe it or not, at the pentagon one of the senior officials who fielded that desperate call for help and expressed opinion wouldn't be good idea to allow the national guard in to help was the younger brother of trump national security adviser mike flynn who was a focal point and hero of the extremists who carried out the attack, who promoted and spoke at events in d.c. that preceded the attack and publicly called for trump to use the military to overturn the election and stay in power. his younger brother was in on the decision january 6th to hold the national guard back and not let them in to help the police being overrun by the rioters as they swarmed the capitol. pentagon made multiple public
stating explicitly denying that flynn had any part in the discussion. army lied about that. why did they lie about that? >> who made that statement? >> that was senior leaders in united states army, general pyatt, general flynn and others, they got back to me saying -- that was on the phone call with district of columbia senior leaders it wouldn't be their best military advice to send uniformed guardsmen to the capitol because they didn't like the optics. >> senior leaders in the u.s. army, including general flynn and others. charlie flynn, mike flynn's brother. why did the pentagon lie and say he wasn't part of this disastrous decision when he definitely was? >> at 1:49 p.m. i received a frantic call from then chief of
united states capitol police steven sun, he informed me that the security perimeter of the united states capitol had been breached by hostile rioters. chief, his voice cracking with emotion indicated a dire emergency at the capitol and requested immediate assistance of as many available national guardsmen as i could muster. immediately after that call i alerted u.s. army senior leadership of the request. the approval for chief sun's request would eventually come from acting secretary of defense and be relaid to me by army senior leaders about 5:08 p.m., i had officers on busses ready to move to the capitol, so 5:20 p.m., the district of columbia
national guard arrived at the capitol. >> i keep imagining the scene, whole world is seeing this on tv, police line breached at this moment. you have smashed windows, you have insurrectionists going through the police lines. you are on the phone, everyone is seeing this on tv and they're not immediately approving your request. and in your recent testimony, you just said hey, i could have gotten them on the busses and ready to go, is that correct? >> that is correct, senator. >> as you just testified in response to senator peters, you believe that would have made a difference to have him at perimeter in sooner point, and i know people in charge of capitol security felt the same. >> yes, ma'am. >> so you could have had them there earlier, hours earlier if it had been approved and then you had them on the bus, sitting for a short period of time
waiting because you thought they've got to honor the request, is that how your head was working, you put them on the bus ready to go but couldn't let them go? >> yes, senator, i just came to the conclusion that eventually i'm going to get approval, and at that point, seconds matters, minutes mattered. i needed to get them there quick as possible. i already had district of columbia national guard military police vehicle in front of the bus to help get through any traffic lights. we were there in 18 minutes. i arrived at 17:20. they were sworn in as soon as they got there. >> as soon as the pentagon finally told them, yes, it's okay to go, the guardsmen were at capitol in 18 minutes. could have been there in 18 minutes. instead, the pentagon, including mike flynn's brother, after mike
flynn is publicly calling on the military to do what the rioters were trying to do, overthrow the government and reinstall trump in power, general flynn's brother and other officials didn't like the idea of sending in the national guard. they were held back more than three hours. could have been there in 18 minutes but were held back more than three hours while everything that happened that day happened and five people died. joining us now, senator amy klobuchar, chairman of the rules committee, and on other committee assignments, nexus of the developing stories tonight. you're in middle of it all, thanks for make the time to be here tonight. >> thank you. >> i felt like a learned a lot at the hearing today in terms of what happened with the national guard situation with that delay. i was frustrated though to not hear from the pentagon officials
who made the decision that the delay should happen. do you expect we will hear from general flynn, former defense secretary, chief of the army who made these calls? >> first of all, as you know last week, and we talked about this, we found out the messups that happened on the capitol side. and that was not requesting the guard earlier. that wasn't the defense department's fault but decisions made by then sergeant at arms that were wrong. that would have made a big difference. i want to look at whole picture here. focus is being constructive. bipartisan basis, peters and blunt and portman and i. those were major issues. we have the structure of the capitol police board where multiple people have to make decisions and give the go-ahead to the capitol police, and that has to change.
then you get to what you're rightfully focused on, the day off. stunning testimony from general walker, where in fact he said he was ready to go, had a number of trained men and women of the national guard, who by the way are guarding us today, will be guarding us tomorrow when we come in to do work to get the covid package done, and they were ready to go, and he waited and waited and waited. and yes, this raises many other questions, and there's many ways we can get those answers. additional hearings, interviews, written questions. but clearly we were left with a big fat question mark about what the motivations were. walker, general walker, head of the d.c. national guard, his theory was they were concerned how it would look. said they were concerned, his testimony, it could have gotten the protesters going more.
but the point was there was moment where everyone in the world saw it on tv. when they made that call it was already on tv that glass was breaking, they had breached the lines and entering the capitol as we now know with bear spray and stun guns and poles they used as weapons and just delay at all is what shocked head of the metropolitan police last week when he testified and this general said the very same thing. they should have immediately, immediately made that decision. and by the way, if people say it doesn't matter, had already entered the capitol, every second mattered, every minute. as you look at loss of life of officer sicknick, the people seriously injured in that insurrection. >> it's been jarring to see that testimony, look at what happened that day, get new information
and also see the warnings about another threat from the same types of folks pinned to tomorrow and conspiracy theories about march 4th. i haven't known how much attention to pay to them, how much frankly to talk about them on television, didn't want to amplify them more than they deserve. but there's been dramatic movement tonight, house not in session, changed voting schedule, late tonight so they don't have to be there tomorrow. security advice that members should use underground tunnels in case there is more trouble. what is your perspective on that? >> we're all listening to the acting police chief and acting sergeant at arms, and we have so much more security than we had, not even a comparison, and so much more intelligence coming our way. there were issues before the
insurrection where raw intelligence was put out, didn't get in the right hands. we think there have been improvements there. senate, reallyrachelwe've got to get this covid package done, and senator ron johnson has decided as you rightfully pointed out he's going to make the parliamentarians read the entire bill into the record. read it out loud. that he's going to make the senate do that. and that's his choice. anyone could read the bill, it's been out there a while. he could read it at home or out loud himself if he would like. but that's one of the things we have to do tomorrow, we have a vote and that's going to happen, then we'll go into the week. we don't think the american people can wait. if he wants to delay them getting direct checks, people who need the help. he wants to delay that money and rest of the republicans want to delay the money going out to pay
for vaccine distribution -- we want shots in the arm and want to follow through on president biden's incredible news yesterday there's going to be shots available for every adult by may. we've got to make sure the distribution is in place. we've got to help our schools. we're staying in until it gets done. >> senator amy klobuchar, chair of the rules committee, right at heart of all the things happening all at once. good to see you, thanks for making time. >> thank you. >> as i mentioned, one of the things the house is voting on is the for the people act, hr-1, election reforms, trying to ungerrymander the country and bolster voting rights. when it goes to committee, senator klobuchar will be helming that. big night, lots still going on, stay with us.
i want my kids to know... they come from people who... were brave. and took risks.
big risks. bring your family history to life, like never before. get started for free at ancestry.com are you one of the millions of americans who experience occasional bloating, gas or abdominal discomfort? taking align can help. align contains a quality probiotic to naturally help soothe digestive upsets 24/7. try align, the pros in digestive health. and join the align healthy gut team up and learn what millions of align users already know. how great a healthy gut can feel. sign up at alignprobiotics.com also try align dualbiotics gummies to help support digestive health. among my patients i often see them have teeth sensitivity as well as gum issues. does it worry me? absolutely. sensodyne sensitivity and gum gives us a dual action effect that really takes care of both our teeth sensitivity as well as our gum issues. there's no question it's something that i would recommend. introducing the new sleep number 360 smart bed. it's the most comfortable, dually-adjustable, foot-warming,
temperature-balancing, proven quality night sleep we've ever made the new sleep number 360 smart bed, from $999. plus, 0% interest for 48 months on all smart beds. only for a limited time

as i mentioned top of theshowwe're following developing news tonight concerning allegations of potential criminal activity by trump transportation secretary elaine chao, the wife of senate republican leader mitch mcconnell, the "new york times" was forced to report that inspector general at transportation department made a criminal referral to the justice department. after investigated she misused her office to benefit her family's shipping company. concluded that a formal investigation into it was warranted. also learned that trump justice department gave that criminal referral on elaine chao to the -- the inspector general gave it to the trump justice department on december 16th and 17th, 2020, during the transition between the trump and
biden administrations. trump justice department declined to take up the investigation. despite the referrals. "new york times" was first to break the story that chao had been using her role as secretary of transportation to boost her family's company. joining me now, "new york times" investigative reporter eric lipton, thanks for make time to be here tonight. >> thank you. >> so the inspector general has described that office's investigation of what you and your colleagues reported at the "times" and other allegations against chao. did you learn thing from the disclosure tonight about chao's behavior or the seriousness with which it was investigated? >> yeah. we learned there were many more examples of her intervening in ways to benefit her father an at times her sister. her father was one of the
founders of the shipping company that largely operates out of china and her sister was chief executive there. there were many more examples of her taking actions to help elevate the promotional aspects of the company, particularly as her father, now retired but still associated with the company was promoting a book and described in chinese media as a major player in the shipping industry in china. >> one of the things that this brought home to me is the sheer number of times we've now learned that trump justice department got a criminal referral for a serving member of the cabinet, then declined to take up the case. from your reporting in your long career of reporting on public corruption and bad behavior by government officials, is it a
surprise that they didn't take this up? >> not really, i mean these are not matters where she was taking actions that brought her direct financial benefit or allegations of money being exchanged or anything like that. i think what the inspector general found were instances that appeared to be ethics violations and made a referral to the doj and made a referral after doj didn't take it up to office of the general council at department of transportation. what they got back from doj, we don't see grounds for criminal case but not adjudicating on whether or not there were ethical violations here, that's up for administrationive process for the department of transportation. i'm not surprised by that, but surprised by how many examples this report documents, department of transportation
staff were used to help promote her father or sister's interests, particularly their face to china where their business operates mostly. >> eric, quick last question for you. obviously secretary chao is out of office but her husband is republican leader in the senate. is there any indication that any family benefit that accrued to the chao family through the actions of secretary chao might have made its way home to secretary chao and to senator mcconnell themselves? any indication he might have benefitted from ill-gotten gains? >> nothing direct. benefits would be she used office and staff to elevate her father and at times her sister, executives -- sister still executive at prominent -- new york-based but building ships in china and delivering
freight in china. a company that's gotten financial backing from government of china to build its ships there. i think her work helped continue to elevate his stature in china and could potentially bring the family company some benefit but nothing that directly benefitted her or mitch mcconnell. >> "new york times" investigative reporter eric lipton, thanks for helping us understand this story and congratulations being there beginning and end of this arc, i appreciate the time. >> thank you. >> more ahead tonight, stay with us. us ts swipe on in seconds. and stays on ten times longer to continue whitening long after you apply. with virtually no sensitivity. no rinsing, no brushing off. just apply and go. try new crest whitening emulsions. better. faster. 100% whiter teeth. shop crestwhitesmile.com
if you love it, spoon it. introducing colliders. your favorite candy flavors twisted, chopped or layered into a dessert that's made to spoon. new colliders desserts.
find them near the refrigerated pudding.

barbara howard is professor at jackson state university in mississippi. this picture taken on her back porch in jackson. left that silver pan outside to collect rain water. like tens of thousands of americans in jackson, mississippi right now, she has
no running water. told the newspaper it's getting complicated to schedule water pickup so she can do basic things like filling up toilets to be flushed. started collecting rain water instead, says so far it's easier. this woman here spoke to the newspaper in jackson. bottled water from the store, supply might last two weeks max. she does have the water coming out of the tap but not clean to drink. largest city in mississippi, today 13th day in a row they're without safe drinking water. cold snap. 16 days later, don't have running water. whole city under a boiling water advisory. can't drink anything out of the tap. and today got worse.
public works director gave a press briefing to update people on how things are coming along, trying to fix the broken water mains and pipes knocked out by the storm. this is how that press conference started. >> try to be as transparent as possible. today was not a good day for us. >> today was not a good day for us. and reason is water pressure. yesterday the water pressure in jackson was around 80 pounds per square inch. context, needs to be about 90 pounds per square inch to generate the force to push through everybody's pipes. it was 80. today it tanked all the way down to 50. which means some people who had regained water pressure to get running water back in their houses have since lost it again as water pressure dropped again from 80 down to 50. public works director did say the city is making some progress on fixing all the leaking pipes.
about 20 broken water mains spilling water into the streets instead of taps. he expects all the broken pipes to be fixed by end of the weekend, which is good news for people who don't have any water in their homes right now but doesn't change the fact that the water itself still isn't safe to drink. city has no guess when jackson's water will be drinkable, if and when people get it back in their faucets and running out of their taps. 16 days of this. how much more can jackson take, and what can the rest of the country be doing to help? mayor of jackson joins us live next, stay with us.
i signed up because i was curious. i learned about my grandfather's life on ancestry and it was a remarkable twentieth-century transformation. he did a lot of living before i knew him. bring your family history to life like never before. get started for free at ancestry.com one of the worst things about a cold sore is how it can make you feel. but, when used at the first sign, abreva can get you back to being you in just 2 and a half days.
be kinder to yourself and tougher on your cold sores. cranky-pated: a bad mood related to a sluggish gut. miralax is different. it works naturally with the water in your body to unblock your gut. free your gut, and your mood will follow.
[♪♪] when you have diabetes, managing your blood sugar is crucial. try boost glucose control. the patented blend is clinically shown to help manage blood sugar levels. boost glucose control products contain high quality protein and key nutrients to support immune health. try boost.
clams, mussels, other fish and other items. that was the official tally of what was clogging jackson, mississippi's, water intake filters today. raw water passes through on the way to the treatment plant and
then to pipes. debris and trouble with the filters caused water pressure to plummet today again in jackson. tens of thousands of people without water, entire city under boil water notice, water is not safe to drink. more than two weeks with a great american city, a capital city, having no drinkable water. when is it going to end? joining us, the mayor of jackson, mississippi. thanks for being here, i know it is a critical time and i appreciate you being here. >> thank you for having me,rachel. >> how are your constituents, your residents, holding up? this is a lot to ask even of the resilient people of mississippi. >> i think your package describes it accurately, it is critical, you know, not only do people depend on the water for
drinking and bathing, but we're in a pandemic, it's a protection mechanism, to wash hands and keep themselves safe. residents are frustrated, they have questions and deserve to know why this is the case. we've been working day in and day out to get the system back running. we're operating from one piece of aged equipment to the next. this is on account of years of neglect, insufficient investment, and that's not just on the local level but state level, federal level. understanding we have legacy cities grappling with this. that's why you're seeing the same narrative from texas to mississippi and beyond. so we are fighting in every way to get this system back running. my most recent report from
public works director is the issue we suffered from today, fortunately been resolved, and we're hopeful that overnight the gains we sustained over last few days we can revisit early in the morning. >> do you need more help at federal level than you've had thus far? been showing images of national guard distributing nonpotable water in some places in the city. talked about this being a problem at state level and federal level for what jackson needs for this to never happen again and build out of it, but in immediate terms, to you need something you're not getting right now and trying to get? >> absolutely. city of jackson like most cities is underresourced and not capable of making this because of our ability. i penned a letter to the governor because it takes state
to activate federal resources to a city. we have to consider a direct pipeline, no pun intended, for resources to go directly to cities. cities where the rubber meets the road are where we see the efficacy of our federal government. we've been having this discussion concerning a large infrastructure package from the federal government for quite some time. it is beyond time we leave the discussion phase and truly implement something to help american cities. >> chokwe lumumba, mayor of the great city of jackson, mississippi, please keep us advised. i know this is incredibly difficult for the residents. keep us updated as you dig out and let us know what the country needs to know. >> thank you. >> we'll be right back.
stay with us. by inventing a revolutionary pad, that's incredibly thin. because it protects differently. with two rapiddry layers that overlap, where you need it most. for strong protection, that's always discreet. it's time to question your protection. it's time for always discreet. (announcer) carvana's had a lot of firsts. 100% online car buying. car vending machines. and now, putting you in control of your financing. at carvana, get personalized terms, browse for cars that fit your budget, then customize your down payment and monthly payment. and these aren't made-up numbers. it's what you'll really pay, right down to the penny. whether you're shopping or just looking. it only takes a few seconds, and it won't affect your credit score. finally! a totally different way to finance your ride. only from carvana. the new way to buy a car.
challenging times are nothing new. neither are resilient people. there's strength in every family story. learn more about yours. at ancestry. why choose proven quality sleep from sleep number? because a good night's rest is where muscles in every family story. recover, and our minds are restored. the new sleep number 360 smart bed is temperature balancing. and it helps keep you asleep by sensing your
movement and automatically adjusts to keep you both effortlessly comfortable. perfect for those relaxing weekends. proven quality sleep, is life-changing sleep. only from sleep number.
as we mentioned top of theshow, house is taking votes late into the night tonight, planning not to be in session tomorrow for security reasons. voting tonight on big for the people act, democracy and election reforms. also the george floyd policing act that just passed. initial reports that one republican voted for it. would be news. turned out he voted for it by accident and i