we have record-breaking low interest rates, now is precisely the time to borrow and invest in one-time infrastructure projects. so that is kind of the premise that we're operating under. >> senator bernie sanders, chair of the budget committee in the senate, thanks for making time tonight. >> thanks for having me. >> that is "all in" on this monday evening. the "rachelmaddowshow" starts right now. good evening. >> good evening, chris. thank you. much appreciated. and thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. 115 degrees in portland, oregon. 117 degrees in salem, oregon. 107 in seattle. the nation of canada just hit its all-time highest recorded temperature ever. the town of lytton in british columbia hit 118 degrees today. that's like three hours
northeast from vancouver, and it was 118 degrees there today. no higher temperature has ever been recorded anywhere in canada in all of recorded history. that 115 degrees today in portland, oregon, that was the hottest temperature ever recorded in recorded history in portland. that said, portland's previous record was set yesterday. and before yesterday, the previous record was set the day before that. today should hopefully have been the worst of it in the pacific northwest. but it's quite bad, emergency rooms filling up with people sick and struggling from the heat. they have been opening cooling centers in towns all around the region, trying to give people a place to go to get away from the heat. they have been shooting water at the drawbridges in seattle to keep them from getting stuck as the metal expands beyond anything it was ever expected to deal with before. they shut down some lanes on interstate 5 because the heat
caused concrete panels on that freeway to just crumble, just turn to dust. east of bellingham, washington, and up against the canadian border, the roads there are just buckling, just falling apart and kind of melting in the heat, collapsing. tonight, a bunch of young people were arrested at various entrances to the white house, these are activists from the sunrise movement who have been trying to keep up maximum pressure to make the u.s. government act against climate change. hundreds of them demonstrated at the white house today. they had said in advance that some of their activists would be risking arrest. we think the total number of those arrested today was 13. they did block entrances to the white house. specifically, they said they were fighting today to try to keep the civilian climate core in the infrastructure plan that president biden is trying to pass. that civilian climate core is not currently in the infrastructure bill.
the one at least that president biden talked up on the white house driveway last week with slightly spooked looking republican senators. but the expectation on the left is that little bipartisan bill that will maybe get some republican support, the expectation on the left, and i think widely in the democratic party, is that whatever it was that president biden, whatever it is that president biden will ultimately be able to work out with some republican senators, whether or not enough republican senators agree to actually pass that, the expectation is that will be just one part of what congress passes. the other stuff, the stuff republicans won't vote for, like the civilian climate core, the activists were demonstrating for today at the white house gates, the expectation is that stuff will be in a second piece of legislation that democrats will plan to pass with their own votes alone, if they need to, whether or not any republicans sign on. republicans -- excuse me, independent senator bernie sanders of vermont just last hour confirming that with our
friend chris hayes here on msnbc. president biden tonight published a new op-ed on his infrastructure plans, conceding that the bipartisan deal he made with those republicans, quote, is missing some critical initiatives on climate change that i proposed. he then said those climate initiatives are things that, quote, i intend to pass in the reconciliation bill. by which he means that second bill that republicans won't support that democrats will try to pass on their own say so anyway. we shall see. anybody who told you last week that there was a done deal and a settled path forward in terms of how this infrastructure stuff gets passed was selling you a little bit of a bill of goods. there's lots still to get settled there, but democrats, including the white house, seem to remain committed at this point that whatever they're able to get done with some republican support is great. but even if all republicans say no, they've got big other plans including the bulk of biden's climate agenda that they're going to try to pass on their
own. that is sort of happening in democratic politics right now. it's interesting to see, right, to have the democratic party hold the white house, hold the house, hold the senate narrow majorities in both houses of congress, but to see them nevertheless getting pushed by the progressives among their number, groups like the congressional progressive caucus, but also by outside groups on the progressive side of the spectrum, saying we know you have narrow margins, but we're going to hold you to it and make you be more ambishing than you otherwise want to. that's the dynamic right now on the democratic side of american politics. on the other side of american politics, meanwhile, today the undisputed leader of the republican party had his lawyers meeting with new york prosecutors today. trying to head off what his own lawyers and multiple news organizations now say will be a set of criminal charges brought against the former president's business by new york prosecutors.
the president already had his trump university shut down by new york law enforcement. he then had his trump foundation, his trump charity shut down by new york law enforcement. now it looks like it's his core business. on thursday, at the end of last week, trump's lawyers met with prosecutors to try to talk them out of filing criminal charges against the trump organization. that apparently did not work. today, they reportedly met again. "the washington post" reported over the weekend that prosecutors told trump organization lawyers that this meeting today would be their last chance, and if they couldn't persuade prosecutors today, that they shouldn't bring charges, then the charges will go forward. well, that meeting in fact happened today. and it doesn't seem like anything resolved. former president trump today released a very upset statement about these developments. seeming to implicitly confirm he knows his business is about to be indicted. he called prosecutors in the case witch hunters. he accused them of prosecutorial misconduct, even though no charges have yet been brought.
he said this prosecution would be, quote, devastating for new york. to be honest, i think new york will probably be fine. the president's real estate company probably not fine if they are in fact criminally indicted, but we shall see. devastating for new york? really? after republicans in the u.s. senate blocked the creation of a bipartisan expert independent commission to investigate the attack on the u.s. capitol on january 6th, the attack that sought to block the certification of the presidential election results, today house speaker nancy pelosi made good on her promise to make sure there is a thorough investigation into that attack anyway. she tonight revealed legislation that would create a select committee to investigate the january 6th attack. now, congress, of course, has tons of standing committees that take, you know, foreign affairs committee, the oversight committee, the judiciary committee. they have all sorts of standing
committees that take on all sorts of investigations and inquiries all the time. a select committee is actually a rare bird. it means congress will create a new committee just for this purpose, just to do this investigation. it will be made up of members of congress, not outside experts, but it will have a dedicated staff that will work just on this investigation. its chair will have subpoena power to compel the production of evidence and to compel witness testimony. the republican leader in the house, kevin mccarthy, has refused to say whether he will even appoint any republicans to serve on such a committee. but we know tonight that pelosi will nevertheless press forward. the structure she's planning on would be 13 members of congress in total. eight which she can appoint and five more than would be appointed in consultation with kevin mccarthy. eight by the democratic speaker, five by the republicans. pelosi's office, though, is raising the prospect that when she makes her eight picks to put
members on that committee, she might pick one republican among her eight picks. that would make the partisan balance on the january 6th committee not 8-5 in favor of the democrats but a more balanced 7-6. of course, the question of whether a republican like liz cheney or adam kinzinger would do it remains to be seen. they are two of the few republicans who have been steadfastly critical of the capitol attack and trump's role in it, but either of them accepting a seat on that committee, a seat appointed by nancy pelosi, that would be like, i mean, that would be like throwing a plugged in toaster into the standing partisan bathwater on capitol hill. but again, we shall see. and again, it remains resolved as to whether or not republicans will allow any of their members be appointed. yeah, i mean, it's not like this is a fraught issue or anything, right, that we deserve some clarity and closure on as a country. it's not like there's continuing
efforts afoot to promote the conspiracy theories and lies about the election that led to the january 6th attack in the first place, right? you will not be surprised to learn that former president trump this weekend used his first big rally since leaving office to talk about how he's not really the former president. he in his mind is still the president. he told a crowd in ohio this weekend, quote, the 2020 presidential election was rigged. we won that election in a landslide. this was the scam of the century. this was the crime of the century. he said he would, quote, never stop fighting for the true results of the election. he praised what he called the, quote, brave republican senators in the state of arizona for their so-called audit, which they have been running into that state's presidential election results. saying he expects them to issue a report on their findings soon. he said that report will be, quote, a big deal. and you know, that audit that they are doing in arizona, if you want to call it that, this
torturous inquisition into the ballots cast in arizona, whatever is going on there with all their secret technology and their secret processes, and their official pro-trump media sponsor that is allowed to broadcast stuff and other people aren't, like, whatever is going on there, they do appear to be finally wrapping up whatever it is they have been doing. last week, they said they would be done by thursday. as we reported friday night, they were still there. they in fact still appeared to be working away at the arizona state fairgrounds there as of this morning. but their lease on that space is up the day after tomorrow. they have to make way for a big gunshowcoming in next. so they do appear to be clearing out now. but in addition to former president trump hanging his whole fantasy of getting reinstated to the presidency on this inquisition in arizona and whatever the cyberninjas are going to announce, which could
be at any point now, what is emerging about this stunt in arizona, which trump world is more and more focused on with each passing day, what is emerging about it is that whatever its announced results are going to be, and however trump world is going to react when arizona says whatever it was the results, whatever it is the results are of the process, whatever else happens here, it does appear clear at this point that many figures in trump world have figured out how to make a ton of money off of this thing. here, for example, is a man named patrick byrne, a pro-trump conspiracy theorist. he had to leave his job as ceo of overstock.com after it was revealed he had an affair with maria butina, who was later charged with being a russian agent. he wrote a book about elision fraud and how he thinks the 2020
election was stolen and he made a bunch of money on that book. he's now in addition to that made a movie about the supposed election fraud. and he seems to be making a ton of money on that. this movie stars the whole cast of characters from the arizona audit debacle. they're all on camera explaining all of the fantastical ways in which they're sure the 2020 election was rigged and stolen from donald trump. but i said they're making money on it because look at how they're distributing this thing. just to watch a livestream of the premiere of this movie, you had to pay $45. you can also pay a minimum of $500 to license it and host your own screening of it. patrick byrne is also now doing a pay to subscribe blog where he just blogs about the election being stolen. he's apparently, according to calculations by "the washington post," on track to make about $1.5 million himself just from
people subscribing to read his blog posts about his election conspiracy theories. i mean, between the book about the supposed election fraud and the movie that cost between $45 and $500 to watch, about the supposed election fraud, and his pay to read my blog post thing about the election fraud, dude is making enough money off these claims for election fraud that he's now employing trump national security adviser and convicted felon mike flynn. he employs mike flynn full-time to talk about that supposed election fraud. that's his job now. and you know what the worst of all of this is for donald trump. none of that money is going to him. we all have learned in this much time that he hates it when people make money off him, that he could be making. remember, he told the republican party, the republican national committee, tt they couldn't even use his name or his likeness for republican party fund-raising. he is the former republican president, but he had his lawyers send the rnc an actual
cease and desist letter to try to get them not to raise money by invoking him or showing his picture because only he is allowed to do that. but sure enough, "the washington post" reports that according to several trump advisers he is, quote, annoyed at all the groups now raising money off his rhetoric about the election being stolen. but it really is so lucrative. every grifter worth their salt is drawn to this arizona circus or wherever the next fake audit is going to be. and once the audit has become, you know, just a money making thing, because however much trump is hanging on it, it's not going to get him reinstated as president. once it's just something that's designed to rile people up enough that they're willing to be parted from their money, and that becomes the not just sort of side hustle here, but the main purpose of what's going on here, as that has increasingly sort of taken over in terms of what's happening in arizona,
there are increasingly zero qualms about going full hard core conspiracy theory, even beyond the pale of stuff that might be conceivably marketed to even a main stream republican audience. they have been going hard core, for example, on the qanon conspiracy theory in recent days. so in the new movie about the arizona odd lt, the new movie that patrick byrne is making all this muni off of, there's mike flynn in the movie wearing a qanon bracelet. and there's a guy being introduced before the movie launch event this weekend in arizona who is being marketed as the new q. he thinks he's q from qanon. he claims he can time travel and his future self is sending messages to him back in time so that present day him can reveal the truth, which sounds crazy, but q can do it. he also happens to be recently out of prison, which you would think his future self would have warned him about so as to avoid becoming imprisoned.
but oh, well. the q works in mysterious ways. they're all sort of unabashed now about it. in terms of how far out there they're getting. i mean, to make this new arizona audit, the election was stolen movie, they really did hire the guy whose last movie was based on the claim that it was aliens that did 9/11. last movie was aliens did 9/11. current movie is trump's going to be reinstated as president because of the arizona audit. apparently the next movie is going to be about the guy who says he's q who has traveled her from the future to warn himself about the election being stolen but not to warn himself about how to avoid not going to jail. i mean, here's the thing, though. apparently, no matter how crazy and out there this stuff is getting, and it's an interesting question as to the former president's mental state as to whether or not he really believes this is going to reinstate him as president or whether he's just riding this
for the grift now, too, but however weird this is getting, arizona republicans really are right there for it. they are all in. i mean, the guy the arizona state senate republicans hired to lead the audit, to run the audit, the head of cyberninjas, the guy they said they hired to perform a nonpartisan objective fair recount of the 2020 ballots, he's in the new conspiracy theory movie made by the aliens did 9/11 guy. there he was on in the movie saturday night talking about how the cia is running a disinformation effort around election fraud or something. he was hired by the president of the arizona state senate, republican arizona state senate karen fam. she's said over and over again she doesn't necessarily believe the election was stolen, the audit she launched is not about trump, not about overturning the 2020 election. it's just about restoring voter confidence in elections. but guess what, this weekend,
senator karen herself attended the big launch event in phoenix for the new election was stolen conspiracy theory movie. she and a bunch of fellow republican state senators there in person. one of the highest ranking republican officials in the state at the event. lending her authority to this crazy qanon thing. things are getting wild in arizona, and you know, we could find out what the supposed results are that they have come up with any day now. they appear to finally be stopping doing whatever it was they were doing in calling their audit. but here we are. i mean, life on earth one, where president biden is trying to pass an infrastructure bill and getting pressure from young activists on the left to make sure it's ambitious on climate while not coincidentally, the plantt cooks like it has never cooked before. life on earth one where democrats want a bipartisan review of violence at the
capitol after we blew the peaceful transition of power for the first time in the nation's history. life on earth one is hard enough. these are real problems that need real solutions. that stuff is hard enough. but on earth two, republican earth, where trump thinks he's still president, that really is where the republican party is still stuck. even as he, you know, is now starting leading political rallies again. even as he's the undisputed leader of his party, even as he girds for potential criminal charges coming as soon as tomorrow. what a world. what a worlds. hot dog or... chicken? only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ we were alone when my husband had the heart attack. he's the most important thing in my life.
i'm so lucky to get him back. your heart isn't just yours. protect it with bayer aspirin. be sure to talk to your doctor before you begin an aspirin regimen. [john legend's i can see clearly now] ♪♪ make your reunion happen with vrbo. ♪♪ your together awaits. ♪♪ for people living with h-i-v, keep being you. and ask your doctor about biktarvy. biktarvy is a complete, one-pill, once-a-day treatment used for h-i-v in certain adults. it's not a cure, but with one small pill, biktarvy fights h-i-v to help you get to and stay undetectable. that's when the amount of virus is so low it cannot be measured by a lab test. research shows people who take h-i-v treatment every day and get to and stay undetectable can no longer transmit h-i-v through sex. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects
include a buildup of lactic acid and liver problems. do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your doctor about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b, do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your doctor. common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache. if you're living with hiv, keep loving who you are. and ask your doctor if biktarvy is right for you. if you're living with hiv, keep loving who you are. you need an ecolab scientific clean here. and here. which is why the scientific expertise that helps operating rooms stay clean now helps the places you go too. look for the ecolab science certified seal. this is a gamechanger, who dares to be fearless even when her bladder leaks.
our softest, smoothest fabric keeping her comfortable, protected, and undeniably sleek. depend. the only thing stronger than us, is you. another day, another chance. it could be the day you break the sales record, or the day there's appointments nonstop. with comcast business, you get the network that can deliver gig speeds to the most businesses, and you can get the advanced cybersecurity solutions you need with comcast business securityedge. every day in business is a big day. we'll keep you ready for what's next. get started with a great offer and ask how you can add comcast business securityedge. plus, for a limited time, ask how to get a $500 prepaid card when you upgrade. call today.
earlier this month, when a trailer came out for a new conspiracy theory movie about the arizona audit and how the 2020 election was stolen from donald trump and a giant conspiracy. a number of people who had been
covering that arizona audit were struck by the familiar sound of one of the voices. someone credited in the trailer as anonymous and shielded from view in the trailer, nevertheless, sounded an awful lot like a man named doug logan, the head of cyberninjas. doug logan and cyberninjas, that's the company performing the supposedly nonpartisan objective audit in arizona. why would that guy be featured in an insane conspiracy theory qanon movie about the audit made by a guy who usually makes movies about aliens taking over the earth? doesn't seem like a good look for people interested in defending the quality of the audit, right? a reporter from the arizona mirror named jared mcdonald evoy, who has been doing some of the most granular reporting on what is happening in arizona started tracking the evolution of that trailer for that film as the filmmakers apparently kept trying to change the voice and replace bits of the trailer so people wouldn't know that the
guy actually running the arizona audit participated in this conspiracy theory qanon adjacent film. weird. but this weekend, that reporter went to the premiere of this new film, and it was no longer a secret. there were no longer trying to disguise his voice or spot shadow him or keep him in silhouette. when they finally showed the movie this weekend, the guy running the arizona audit is proudly revealed as an enthusiastic source for this crazy pants movie. a majority of republican voters across the country believe that the election was stolen from donald trump. this ridiculous exercise in arizona is their best source of hope for believing that. and it is crazy enough to be looking in at that from across the country, knowing that this is the long, weird tale of the last presidency. but from close up, covering it from close up, covering it from arizona, it's definitely even crazier. joining us now is jared mcdonald
evoy, a reporter at the arizona mirror. his coverage of the arizona audit and the cast of characters surrounding it has been indispensable for understanding what is happening there. thank you very much for being with us. i appreciate your time tonight. >> thank you. thank you for having me on. >> is this exercise in arizona over? it's been a little hard to tell. we thought they might be wrapping up last week. it seems like maybe now they're wrapping up now. >> well, honestly, it's hard to tell. it's been very much a moving target from the get go. when it comes to this audit, a lot of things are constantly changing. when it comes to the procedures or when it's going to wrap up, i mean, earlier this year, we were told that things would end at a certain time, but then things got extended again. we saw what happened when the lease, we had issues with the lease and what happened when graduations happened and there was kind of that hub bub that happened there. when it comes to this audit, nothing is kind of -- a lot of things are always up in the air.
we never really quite know what's going to happen. as for us reporters in arizona, it keeps us on our toes of what's going to happen. as far as we know from official channels, we have been told that it's going to be wrapping up, and it has ended here soon, and they finished the counting, and they're finishing up what's called this paper examination portion of the audit. >> we have seen that it has been sort of a hallmark, there have been these repeated touchstones among those who believe in the president's conspiracy theories around the election, that the election was stolen from him or there there was some sort of fraud nobody has been able to prove but was definitely there. we have seen these films happen. we saw mike lindell do a film and then do another film. there's a whole universe of youtube devoted to this stuff, but there was also this new film that was premiered in arizona, phoenix, which seems to have unusual access to the audit
itself. i will say, reading your coverage of it today, the thing that was most surprising to me was to learn that the state senate predand other republican lawmakers were there. it seems like sort of something that would be more for the, like, die-hard true believer rabble rather than for the officials that are going to have to be defending whatever the results of this audit is pretty soon. >> it was a little surprising to see that there were some lawmakers there, but at the same time, it wasn't. some lawmakers that were there, like representative mark finchum and sunny borelli have been very involved in what i call this alternative media that is out there. we have a lot of that here in arizona. alternative media that has been deflat prms or had issues because the election fraud issues they spread or the qanon issues they spread, finchum and boreellie, they frequently appear on alt-right channels or qanon type channels.
for example, representative finchum was on a channel called red pill, i believe 76. it's a channel that is primarily dedicated to qanon content for the most part, and has spread a lot of unfounded conspiracy theories around the arizona audit like saying there was a spy plane that was sent by biden to spy on the arizona audit, but it was actually a phoenix police plane that had nothing to do with the audit. it was circling nowhere near the audit, but that was ashowthat finchum appeared on. so for people who have been following a lot of these lawmakers very closely, it wasn't incredibly surprising to see they didshowup at this event, considering that it hit on a lot of the key fraud claims that a lot of these lawmakers have been bolstering to their supporting ranks in the past few months. >> jared, as things have gotten weirder, like those kind of allegations you were just describing, biden sending a spy
plane, famously, the hunt for bamboo fibers in the paper, the more outlandish, unbelievable, and in some cases laughable claims that have undergirded his supposed need for the audit and the things they're investigating, as things have gotten weirder and weirder, has that undercut the seriousness with which republicans are treating this? or the anticipation in republican circles as to what the supposed audit is going to find? usually, in rationalist terms, when stuff gets weird, you expect it to appeal to a smaller base. in this case, i can't quite tell if that's happening or not in arizona. >> i think i would say yes and no, there are some sets of conservative belief out here in arizona that see some of that as evidence of further wrongdoing, of further, you know, evidence of there being issues in the election.
they see it as further evidence to support that there is, you know, something going on nefarious going on in the election or something nefarious going on in, you know, the audit or the people in the orbit of the audit. but then there are republicans that have been coming out and saying no, this is not right. we're seeing a lot of misinformation and disinformation. there have been republicans who have spoken out like very publicly and such as maricopa county reporter steven richer or the board of supervisors which is mainly republican, maricopa county board of supervisors which is mainly republican. they have come out strong lay against it. that's been a big sticking point in the arizona senate. they have been fighting back and forth, which is primarily republican. so they do have this kind of divide between certain types of republicans within the state who some no matter what happens, they see it as some sort of evidence towards more fraud or you have the others that are kind of saying enough is enough
with some of this stuff. >> it does feel like at times a little bit of something that tends toward mass hysteria, this idea that any countervailing evidence is just more evidence for how right you are. i will tell you, just covering this from the outside, i do find your work and the work of your colleagues at the mirror and arizona republic and some other outlets to have been incredibly valuable. i also know that you guys have been working triple time in order to keep the country informed as to what's been going on, and it has been hard to follow and it's a challenge, so i want tathank you and commend you and the mirror and all your colleagues for doing all this hard work, jared. it's -- the country needs you and you guys have been doing great work. >> i really appreciate that. thank you very much. >> jared mcdonald evoy is a reporter at the arizona mirror. again, where will say, part of me doesn't even want to anticipate, let alone sort of talk about the fact that there's going oo be some result
announced about the arizona audit because, i mean, they have been there, you know, basically playing with toe jam for all these weeks and we don't know, there's no reason to believe there's going to be any actual information, anything real that comes out of the audit. however, we have to pay attention to that just as a bnchmark for the country because when they come out and they inevitably say oh, yeah, it was the chinese and the aliens and the people out to get mike flynn that all, like, rigged the election for trump, it's going to have an impact in trump world because trump voters, trump supporters. and certainly people around the president himself, want to believe that there was something wrong with the 2020 election, and whatever comes out of this garbage process in arizona will be seized on to start a whole new chapter, and then trying to solve the fact that joe biden wasn't legitimately elected. having to pay attention to this is both infuriating and enervating, but also i think prudent because this is not getting any less nuts over time.
all right, we have much more to get to tonight. stay with us. a number. and mine's unlisted. try boost® high protein with 20 grams of protein for muscle health. versus 16 grams in ensure high protein. boost® high protein also has key nutrients for immune support. boost® high protein. with relapsing forms of ms... there's a lot to deal with. not just unpredictable relapses. all these other things too. it can all add up. kesimpta is a once-monthly at-home injection... that may help you put these rms challenges in their place. kesimpta was proven superior at reducing the rate of relapses, active lesions, and slowing disability progression vs aubagio. don't take kesimpta if you have hepatitis b, and tell your doctor if you have had it, as it could come back. kesimpta can cause serious side effects, including infections. while no cases of pml were reported in rms clinical trials, it could happen. tell your doctor if you had or plan to have vaccines, or if you are or plan to become pregnant.
kesimpta may cause a decrease in some types of antibodies. the most common side effects are upper respiratory tract infection, headache, and injection reactions. ready for an at-home treatment with dramatic results? it's time to ask your doctor about kesimpta. nicorette knows, quitting smoking is freaking hard. readyyou get advice like:tment with dramatic results? try hypnosis... or... quit cold turkey. kidding me?! instead, start small. with nicorette. which can lead to something big. start stopping with nicorette you've been taking mental health meds, and your mind is finally in a better place. except now you have uncontrollable body movements called tardive dyskinesia - td. and it can seem like that's all people see. some meds for mental health can cause abnormal dopamine signaling in the brain. while how it works is not fully understood, ingrezza is thought to reduce that signaling. ingrezza is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with td movements
in the face and body. people taking ingrezza can stay on their current dose of most mental health meds. don't take ingrezza if you're allergic to any of its ingredients. ingrezza may cause serious side effects, including sleepiness. don't drive, operate heavy machinery, or do other dangerous activities until you know how ingrezza affects you. other serious side effects include potential heart rhythm problems and abnormal movements. shift the focus more on you. ask your doctor about ingrezza. it's simple. one pill, once-daily. #1 prescribed for td. learn how you could pay as little as $0 at ingrezza.com

in surfside, florida, makeshift memorials are springing up now to people lost and the people still missing since thursday, when a part of a 12-story condo complex collapsed. no warning. 136 total units in the building, 55 of them crumbled within seconds in the middle of the night. family members have been posting photos of their missing loved ones, hoping someone has seen them, hoping they somehow weren't in that building when it came down. today is day five since the collapse. and the search for survivors continues desperately, but with more bad news tonight. for all of the families and all of the people who are worried about those who they haven't heard from. authorities announced tonight that another victim has been pulled from the rubble. that makes it a total of 11 people who are now confirmed dead in the building collapse.
even more horrifying than that, though, is the total number of people still unaccounted for, even with 11 people known to have been killed, there are another 150 persons still unaccounted for. and that prospect that the unaccounted for number may soon become something approaching a death toll is almost impossible to get your head around. rescue crews on site are systematically going through the massive piles of rubble in the hopes of finding life. their work has been delayed by rain, by fires on site, by the imminent threat of further collapse of remaining parts of the building. teams have tunnelled into the site. they have used dogs and sonar and specialized cameras. there's teams from mexico and israel that are part of the search. those are teams that are skilled at finding survivors of catastrophes. the core mystery alongside the tragedy is what caused the building to collapse. and it's still speculation, but
it's speculation that will be at the heart of ongoing investigations. the discussion right now focusing on an inspection report from three years ago, from 2018, where a local engineer warned, about, quote, major structural damage below the pool area at the condo complex, and quote, abundant cracking in other parts of the building. the engineer's report said failure to replace the waterproofing in the near future will cause the extent of the concrete deterioration to expand exponentially. again, identifying bad concrete deterioration already, saying failure to do major repairs would cause the concrete deterioration to spread. the report also said that the waterproofing had been laid on a flat structure which hadn't been sloped to drain. calling it a major error by the developers, by the builders. the engineer added that this was causing major structural damage to the concrete structural slab below these areas. again, this was all from 2018.
all in black and white. all quite explicit and quite urgent. the surviving residents of that tower that collapsed told nbc news they never heard about any of this. in fact, residents say town officials told them in a 2018 meeting that the building was, quote, not in bad shape. joining us now is from surfside, florida, patricia, miami bureau chief of the miami times. she's been covering this from the very beginning. thank you for taking time to talk to us tonight. i know this is an exhausting story. >> happy to be here to tell people's stories about it. >> help me understand where we are in the process. the thing that is gut-wrenching here is not only the known loss of life already but the very large number of people who remain unaccounted for, and the fact that this is day five. obviously, the first 72 hours is seen as the sort of golden period, that sort of best window for hopes of finding people
alive. day five, it is starting to feel like a very, very scary situation. >> yeah, i think over the weekend especially, after the sort of initial frustration from the families about not knowing exactly what was happening, they were able to see up close. they were taken as close to the site as they could get to sort of witness the search efforts themselves. and they saw the hundreds of people who are working near the pile. they saw this labyrinth of tunnels and machinery that is now working there, and they were able to sort of have a private moment there to grieve. so i think that has led to officials starting to ease them into the idea as horrible as it is, that this is going to be a long, pain-staking process and what they might find are human remains but it's going to be very difficult. the rescue workers i have spoken to talk about just the enormity of it being very different from
anything they have had to work before in terms of the number of possible fatalities. and they describe really harrowing situations where they find one floor just barely a couple feet from another floor. normally, there would be about ten feet between the ceiling and the floor of one story of the building. now we're talking about maybe two feet, one foot of spacing. it's just really terrible, everything we hear coming out of the site. >> can you tell us a little bit about how officials arrived at this, as i said, this sort of terrifying number, there may be as many as 150 people who are unaccounted for now, five days into this? how confident are they in that number? obviously, it looms as a theoretical potential death toll when this is all over. >> they still call it a very fluid number. they have not been willing to release the names on it because they fear it's not entirely correct yet.
they have depended on families to come forward and report their loved ones missing. and file formal paperwork, saying that. and so the question is, you know, there's a big international community in south florida. have they reached everybody who might be abroad, in other countries? are there language barriers? it's really been a process of relying on the families to come forward and just yesterday, they were saying they didn't think they had heard from all the families of the missing yet, and they wanted their information. they wanted their dna to be swabbed so that they could make comparisons with any remains they find. it's sort of a slow process, and one that they don't have, you know, complete confidence in being completely correct. i think we would all love to think that a lot of these people are sort of on vacation somewhere and not following the news, but i don't know that that's the case. >> in terms of the ongoing efforts, the rescue and recovery efforts, it's been interesting to see international teams come
in, teams from other countries, and teams from around the united states, that have specialized expertise, specialized equipment. can you give us any sense of how dangerous the rescue and recovery efforts are? obviously, these are specialized teams and they know what they're doing, but some of the pace of it, i think, obviously, like you said, they have got an enormous -- the enormity of the task is daunting. but are they themselves at risk for potential further collapse while they're on site, on the pile? >> that was of particular concern early on. it still is, but early on, they really had no idea what they were facing, and they were going through the bottom, through these tunnels because they thought that was the best chance that they would have to find what they called voids, which are empty spaces where they might find life, and so they started at the bottom, drilling through bit by bit, and shoring up the concrete so that the
rescue workers themselves wouldn't be injured. we did hear today, which is a frightening thought, of one of the rescue workers kind of falling down the mound 25 feet. we were also told there were no serious injuries, but the teams travel with trauma surgeons, in large part to protect the workers because it is very dangerous, because they don't know if there's going to be a secondary collapse. and when there were those conditions of fire and thunderstorms and rain and sort of things that could destabilize the pile, that was of extra concern. >> patricia, miami bureau chief for "the new york times" has been covering this for the last few days. just an absolutely gut-wrenching story. thanks for giving us some context. thanks for helping us understand. >> thanks for having me. >> we have much more ahead here this monday night. stay with us. please please no. ♪ i never needed anyone. ♪ front desk. yes, hello... i'm so... please hold. ♪ those days are done. ♪
i got you. ♪ all by yourself. ♪ go with us and find millions of flexible options. all in our app. expedia. it matters who you travel with. vo: the world is racing expedia. to create the clean energy jobs that will solve the climate crisis. president biden has a plan to make sure america wins that race. biden: doing nothing is not an option. the world is not waiting. if we act to save the planet, we can create millions of good paying jobs. and i want to put the world on notice, america is back. the competition of the 21st century, the future, will be built right here in america. doing nothing is not an option. introducing aleve x. it's fast, powerful long-lasting relief with a revolutionary, rollerball design. because with the right pain reliever... life opens up. aleve it, and see what's possible.
you're strong. you power through chronic migraine - 15 or more headache days a month, ...each lasting 4 hours or more. botox® prevents headaches in adults with chronic migraine. so, if you haven't tried botox® for your chronic migraine, ...check with your doctor if botox® is right for you, and if samples are available. effects of botox® may spread hours to weeks after injection causing serious symptoms. alert your doctor right away, as difficulty swallowing, ...speaking, breathing, eye problems, or muscle weakness... ...can be signs of a life- threatening condition. side effects may include allergic reactions... ...neck and injection site pain... ...fatigue, and headache. don't receive botox® if there's a skin infection. tell your doctor your medical history, muscle or nerve conditions... ...and medications, including botulinum toxins, as these may increase the risk of serious side effects. most patients may pay as little as $0 for botox®. so, text to see how you can save. botox® has been preventing headaches and migraines before they even start for 10 years. so, ask your doctor about botox® today. ♪
so, ask your doctor about botox® today. hey lily, i need a new wireless plan for my business, but all my employees need something different. oh, we can help with that. okay, imagine this... your mover, rob, he's on the scene and needs a plan with a mobile hotspot. we cut to downtown, your sales rep lisa has to send some files, asap! so basically i can pick the right plan for each employee... yeah i should've just led with that... with at&t business... you can pick the best plan for each employee and only pay for the features they need.
- oh. - what's going on? - oh, darn! - let me help. lift and push and push! there... it's up there. hey joshie... wrinkles send the wrong message. help prevent them before they start with downy wrinkleguard.   stoert -- the story struck a
nerve last week when we covered it. the name of the pro-democracy paper in hong kong is called "apple daily." china has started throwing an iron fist around hong kong, and the free press there has paid a very dramatic price. last week "apple daily" was force to do shut down. they froze the paper's assets so they couldn't pay their staff, they couldn't pay for operations. but then the police started arresting the staff of the newspaper. five executives at "apple daily" and a communist were rounded up and thrown in jail. around that increasingly impossible pressure, the newspaper announced they were closing. they printed that on last thursday. people stood around waiting to get their copy. instead of their usual 80,000
copies, they printed a million copies. they were all sold out before 9:00 a.m. the last edition of the last pro-democracy newspaper in that great city. it's obviously an upsetting story for democracy, for freedom of the press, for creeping authoritarianism around the world. it's especially horrible for the journalists who worked there which they thought the only way to keep colleagues from getting thrown in jail was to close it, but apparently that wasn't enough. one was trying to board a plane from hong kong to london. he was arrested in the airport. police say they arrested him for, quote, conspiring to collude with foreign countries or foreign sources to endanger
national security -- a crime punishable by up to life in prison. the journal put out a statement, quote, we reiterate that freedom of speech and freedom of the press are both hong kong's core values. it said in a facebook statement. if the writer's pen is forbidden, hong kong will hardly be regarded as an international city. this was the headline at bloomberg when it happened. quote, fear grips other hong kong media after china crushes "apple daily." indeed. watch this space. indeed watch this space i felt gross. it was kind of a shock after i started cosentyx. four years clear. real people with psoriasis look and feel better with cosentyx. don't use if you're allergic to cosentyx. before starting, get checked for tuberculosis. an increased risk of infections
and lowered ability to fight them may occur. tell your doctor about an infection or symptoms, if your inflammatory bowel disease symptoms develop or worsen, or if you've had a vaccine or plan to. serious allergic reactions may occur. learn more at cosentyx.com. i became a sofi member because i needed to consolidate my credit card debt. i needed just one simple way to pay it all off. it was an easy decision to apply with sofi loans, just based on the interest rate and how much i would be saving. there was only one that stood out and one that actually made sense and that was sofi personal loans. it felt so freeing. i felt like i was finally out of this neverending trap of interest and payments and debt. ♪♪ for people living with h-i-v, keep being you. and ask your doctor about biktarvy. biktarvy is a complete, one-pill, once-a-day treatment used for h-i-v in certain adults. it's not a cure, but with one small pill, biktarvy fights h-i-v to help you get to and stay undetectable.
that's when the amount of virus is so low it cannot be measured by a lab test. research shows people who take h-i-v treatment every day and get to and stay undetectable can no longer transmit h-i-v through sex. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects include a buildup of lactic acid and liver problems. do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your doctor about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b, do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your doctor. common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache. if you're living with hiv, keep loving who you are. and ask your doctor if biktarvy is right for you.
ah! if you're living with hiv, keep loving who you are. my helicopter has better wifi than this. you thinking what i am? great time. don't worry i have the best internet people. hello xfinity. get me xfi pronto. that was fast. yep. now we just self-install. and we're back baby. do more of what you love when you upgrade to xfinity xfi. baby ninjas? i love it.
if you're wondering why sales of pepto-bismol at the
bor dega outside ukraine, they have started drills together on the black sea. they're called sea breezes. but don't let the wine cooler fool you. they are expected to last two weeks. they'll involve 5,000 military from the u.s., ukraine and nato. the u.s.s. ross focuses on marine warfare, anti-warfare. they have never done anything on this scale. in a tweet today, the u.s. and ukraine said, quote, sea breeze 2021 is nothing new except the number of countries is bigger
than ever and these scenarios are more complex. ukraine says they're taking part in these drills with all this machinery to gain experience in all these joint activities, bit the subtext is clear. ukraine wants to join nato, and ukraine having a close alliance with the united states and with nato also sends a very clear message to russia. as you might expect, moscow is feeling quite dyspeptic to these. they said they will act as necessary to protect their own national security. last week d.c. called on these exercises to be canceled but they are going ahead. in the next two weeks, watch this space.   that's going to do it for us tonight. thank you for joining us. now it's time for "the last word with lawrence o'donnell." >> we know he went to ohio this weekend