prevail, the governor did, gavin newsom remains incumbent governor of the state of california. our thanks to our patient guests, to analysis not the board. that is our broadcast for tonight. thank you so much for being with us. >> thanks don for joining us this hour. we have the book. we got it early. the book is called peril. it is by washington post journalist bob woodward and robert costa. it is not published. it's not being published till next week. we obtained a copy tonight, evidence of speed reading here. on therachelmaddowshowspecialty. this book has important news in it. what's the book is about broadly speaking, the peril it's describing its title, is just how fraught and dangerous the period was for the country
surrounding the 2020 election, and immediately thereafter. and in the broadest possible structure, we know it was fraud and dangerous. we had our national capital come under violent attack. but the thing that is so bracing in nerve-racking, and important about this new book, is what it reveals about how much worse it was than we knew. how much closer we came to real disaster, then we have known before now. again, this comes out next, week we have obtained a copy of it. this is how the book starts. quote. two days after the january 6th 2021 violinists on the u.s. capitol by supporters of president donald trump, general mark milley, the national security military officer in chairman of the joints of staff placed an urgent call on top secret black channel line at 7:03 am to his chinese counterpart, general li, chief of the joint staff of the
liberation army. he knew from extensive reports that lee and the chinese men leadership were stunned in distorted by the televised images of the unprecedented attack on the american legislator. he fired off questions to milley. was the american superpower unstable? was it collapsing? what was going? on was the u.s. military going to do something? milley said in response quote, things may look unsteady. milley was trying to calmly, who we had known for five years. but that's the nature of democracy, generally. we are 100% steady. everything is fine. but democracy can be sloppy sometimes. it took an hour and a half, 45 minutes of substance, excuse me, it took an hour and a half, 45 minutes of substance due to the necessary use of interpreters, to try to assure him. when milley hung up, he was convinced the situation was grave. we remained unusually rattled. putting the two nations on the edge of disaster, general
milley had witnessed up close how trump was routinely impulsive and unpredictable. making matters even more dire milley was certain trumpet gone into a serious mental klein and aftermath of the election, all but manic screaming at officials and constructing his own alternate reality, about endless election conspiracies. milley had misled general li when he said the u.s. was a hunter percent steady and the january 6th riot was just an example of a sloppy democracy. to the contrary, milley believe january six with the plans, coordinated, synchronized attack on the very heart of american democracy, decide to overthrow the government to prevent the constitutional certification of illegitimate election won by joe biden. milley cannot rule out that the january 6th assault so an imagined in savage could be a dress rehearsal for something larger. as trump publicly and privately clung to his belief that the election had been rigged for
joe biden stolen from him. that is how, that's the start of the new book. so first of all, the january 6th attack on the capitol, freaked out the chinese military, who believed that trump might start a war or something that would lead to a war with china, in order to cling to power. bob woodward and robert costa reporting in the book that it freaked out china and lots of foreign powers, and the united states top military officer felt like the chinese were so freaked out, he had to conduct his own secret back channel cooldown chat with the head of the chinese military. even though chairman of the joint chiefs did not even fully believe himself that everything was okay, he lied and said it was. he felt like he'd better till the chinese military that things were fine, to make sure that nothing that happened. the chinese believed they were intimate risk, or of an unprovoked american attack, by an unstable american president to needed to do that to save
his own skin. what might they do, to fend off that attack? or to gain an advantage? what's more, the new book peril reports, this was not even the first time general milley decided he had to do that. he put in a call to the same chinese general a few days before the election as well, to talk them down. top the chinese down from fears, that donald trump was about to launch an attack on china to help himself when the election. it's a call several days before the election, that he did not tell president trump about. and you know it's sort of for us as americans it's one thing to learn that the chinese, decided based on their own intelligence, that the american president was unstable enough to launch a military strike simply to help himself win a reelection, it's one thing for us to know that the chinese thought that. it's interesting to tell you about the way chinese intelligence approaches us in the world. but it's quite another thing
when the u.s. chairman of the joint chiefs decides he needs to call them secretly in intel them he will let them know if that throw ever becomes real. he'll let them know in advance. he promises it won't be a surprise. but the fears about what president trump might do with his military powers around the election in the attack on the capitol, those were not limited to just other countries. for example, the house speaker nancy pelosi called general milley, chairman of the joint chiefs, two days after the january 6th attack. to discuss her fears that president trump was so erratic at that moment, he might launch a military action, including potentially a nuclear strike of some kind. bob woodward and robert costa claimed to have obtained a transcript of that phone call, which is fascinating in itself. i don't know where they got the transcript from. i'm very curious. but this is a portion of that transcript, as printed in this
new book peril. pelosi, what precautions are available to prevent and unstable president from initiating military hostilities, or from accessing the launch codes in ordering a nuclear strike? >> milley, this is one of those moments madam speaker where you're going to have to trust me on this. i guarantee. i'm giving you my word. i can't say any of it publicly because i don't have the authorities. i can assure you that the united states military's study is iraq, and we're not going to do anything illegal, immoral or unethical with the use of force. we will not do. it pelosi, who knows what he might do. he's crazy. you know he's crazy. he's been crazy for a long time. so don't say you don't know what his state of mind. is he's crazy and what he did yesterday is further evidence of this craziness. but anyway i appreciate what you said. general milley, madam speaker i agree with you on everything. >> here's what's bob woodward
and robert costa report about chairman of the joint chiefs in the aftermath of that phone call. quote, pulling a -- of the lines of military communications and command authority. the move was a reference to the edict by former -- august 1974 to not follow orders that came directly from president nixon, who is facing impeachment, or from the white house without first checking with celeste injure and his joint chiefs of staff chairman general george brown. james schlesinger and brown it feared nixon michael around the chain of command and independently contact officers or specific military unit to order a strike putting the country in the world in jeopardy. they had been unwilling to take that west. milley saw alarming parallels between nixon and trump. in 1974 nixon had grown increasingly irrational an isolated, drink in heavily, and in despair pounding the carpet
in prayer with then secretary of hate state henry kissinger. milley decided to act, immediately someone's even officers from the national command center, this is the war, room used in the pentagon. this is the war room the pentagon used for communicating orders from the committed through. a to the president or his successor, for military action or use of nuclear weapons. milley said he wanted to go over the procedures and process for launching military weapons. only the president could give the order he said, but then he made clear that he, chairman of the joint chiefs of staff must be directly involved. quote, any doubt, any irregularity first call me directly, and immediately. do you not act until you do. he pointed to himself, then he went around the room asking each officer for confirmation that they understood. looking each in the. i got it milley asked? yes sir. got it? got it yes sir. milley considered an oath.
to be clear, the oath sees acting them to take their, the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff is not in the chain of command for a nuclear strike. the chairman does not have any authority to either call a nuclear strike or block one. the chairman advises the president, he's not in the military chain of command. he said it himself in that phone call and nancy pelosi, that we now mysteriously have a transcript. of general milley told pelosi i really don't have the authorities. he does not. no one, not the chairman of the joint chiefs, not the defense secretary, nobody can just make a new rule don't listen to the president. only listen to me. that's not a thing in terms of military orders. but, there's a very practical reason that secretary of defense james schlesinger didn't get in trouble for doing that in 1974. and that's the same practical reason that milley is not going to get in trouble for now.
they were and are and will be perceived as trying to stop a much greater evil. by essentially inserting themselves into the chain of command, in order to prevent literally, catastrophe. and there were clearly a number of people in the top of the u.s. government in january this year, including the top military officer, who felt we were much closer to catastrophe, then i think most of us realized at the time. and speaking of, that there's this one other revelation in this new book again from bob woodward and robert costa then i think is worth pulling out. it concerns mike pence. former vice president mike pence is these days, accredited greatly, with what he did on january, six with plowing ahead and doing his constitutional duty on january, sixth despite the mob of trump supporters
attacking the capitol, and searching for him, because they said they wanted to hang him. it was his job as president of the senate. to oversee the count of the electoral votes for president, and there by certify the election of joe biden as the next president of the u.s.. and mike pence did. that despite the pressure from president trump and his allies that he should do something. else that he should somehow use that job that he had, use that role he had to throw the election to trump, or at least to render the election unsettled. despite all that pressure, despite trump supporters roaming the halls looking for him to kill, him to stop him from doing his job, pence did his job. in this new book, one of the things that they report, is that mike pence in their telling, was far more reluctant to do his job, far more reluctant to do his constitutional duty than the public narrative has suggested. bottom, line vice president
pence did not ultimately succeed to trump's wishes, to block the certification of the election, to overturn the results and leave trump, empower or render the election results on avoidable. it was not for his a lack of him trying to find a way to do that. from bob woodward and robert costa. in late december, he phoned former president dan quail. at 74 the ones boyish looking quail is living the private life in arizona. the two men shared a unique phone file, indiana republicans who had become vice president. pence phoned because he wanted advice. despite the electoral college casting its ballots for biden back on december 14th, trump was convinced that pence could somehow throw the election to trump on january six. when congress meant to certify the final count. pence explained to his fellow indian, in dan quail, that trump was pressuring him to intervene, to ensure biden would say not secure the needed votes for the certification. and push the election to a vote
in the house of representatives, it thrown to the house, there was a twist. and trump was fixated on this twist. it was the provision that could theoretically at least keep him in power. while the democrats held the current house majority, the 12th amendment of the constitution stated that the voting on a contested election would not be done by a simple majority vote in the, house instead the amendment says the election vote will be counted in blocks of state delegations, with one vote per state. republicans controlled more delegations, in the house of representatives. meaning, trump would likely win, if the house chamber ended up deciding the victor, based on the pre-scripts of that. former vice president dan quail thought trump's suggestion was preposterous and dangerous. his effort to control events was a dark rube goldberg-like fantasy. and can precipitate a constitutional crisis. mike, you have no flexibility on this.
none, zero, forget it, put it. away pump pence that i know that's what i've been trying to tell trump. but he really thinks he can and there's other guys in there saying i've got this power. i've. quail interrupted him. you don't, just stop it he said. pence pressed again. it was easy for quail to make a blanket statement from political winter. he wanted to know, veep to veep, whether there was even a glimmer of light, legally, constitutionally to perhaps put a pause on the certification, if there were ongoing court cases, and legal challenges. quill repeated. forget it. pence finally agreed, acting to overturn the election would be -- one man could not effectively throw the election to the house of representatives. quail told pence to let it go, mike, don't even talk about it he said. pence paused. you don't know the position i'm in he said. . even if you're someone like
mike pence, who's very festive by placate-ing your, boss even if you really committed to the rule of law, and not letting trump overturn the election, but you're just trying to make trump less mad at you, it's not going to help to call dan quail. and as dan quail for his advice on how to do a trump says. you don't call dan quail just to appease trump. even though you never have any intention of doing what trump want you to do. what's being described in this new, book is the action of a man who really genuinely is searching for a way, he can do what trump wants. in that conversation that he had with dan quail, bob woodward and cost to report that he raised the -- at the vote count in arizona, as if that was enough for pretext to justify not certifying the entire election. in thereby setting the stage to throw it to the house of representatives, will republicans in the house would ensure that trump held down to power, despite losing to joe biden.
this new book makes it clear that pence was far closer than we had previously realized, to doing some version of what trump wanted him to do. in with more than half of the entire republican caucus in the, house ultimately voting to reject the results. mike pence was the guy who stopped that, from happening. but it was close. we were there. and the right is honestly made no progress in widening the distance of how close we were in the month since, the problem here is that this history. this newly-disturbing slice of our history, with which what we're learning from bob woodward and robert costa in this new book. this history is not very old's history. this all happened a few months ago. and since then, in the intervening eight months, on the right in republican
politics, it's not like this stuff has gotten better. it's not like this matter has been settled and put away of as a sort of historical curiosity. it's madness that everybody will deny they were every caught up in at the time. the 2020 election results are still not a settled matter for the republican party. tonight, tonight's you're on ashowthat will be talking with a key election official from wisconsin, where the republicans in the legislature there have just started their own bizarre partisan review of the 2020 election, a sort of copycat audit of what republicans are doing with the presidential election results in all the voting equipment in arizona. wisconsin republicans just yesterday started sending out their demands, to local election officials around wisconsin, local officials who frankly have no idea what they're supposed to do with their secure equipment and election records, now that republicans state legislatures are telling them to hand those things over to republican activists and their crazy conspiracy theories.
republicans are doing this in multiple states now. now. not months ago. now. they started doing it yesterday in wisconsin. this upcoming weekend in washington d.c. they're preparing for the trump rally in support of the january 6th rioters, who attacked the u.s. capital to try to stop the certification of the presidential election, results the washington post tonight rana feature and these flyers that are going up all over d.c.. starting today. to prepare local residents for what to do if the pro january 6th attacks rally on the day turns out to be as violent as some of the chatter on line around it suggests. these flyers, as of today are going up all over downtown d.c.. they say quote, if you see someone with a firearm, immediately call 9-1-1, if you see a gun, immediately call 9-1-1. capitol police in d.c.
metropolitan police are fully activated for, saturday every officer on the force will be on duty, and the local police forces have been asked to be on standby yankees more help is needed to defend the capital. and it's not even just that republicans are still looking backward to last november's elections, still promoting their efforts from january, to stop the certification of the election by force. it's not just that they're still backward looking toward 2020, it's also the recall election that's happening right now as we speak tonight in california. in california the leading republican candidate in the race was as of yesterday, pre-declaring that he has lost the race today. and pre-blaming his loss on some sort of fraud, even before the election actually happened. and with that being the lead republican messaging heading into that messaging, it's not a surprise that the local headlines in california look like this. from the l.a. times, election fraud conspiracy theories ahead of recall.
raise fears of violence. we this is not history this is now. what's the way around it? what is the way out of this mess? over the august break, nine u.s. senators got together to try to do something, something substantive and forward-looking. to try to take the heat off this issue, or at least sabbath of some of its ongoing destructive power, after republican senators in june block the big voting rights, bill called for the people, like these nine senators went back to the drawing board, to try to find something else. some other approach that could potentially get around the republican opposition, will also bore stirring voting rates for real. right now, these republican fantasies about elections, are being treated as pretext enough, to nuke voting rights and to
nuke the professional nonpartisan ministration of election all around the country. the freedom to vote act, released today, for the first, time is 592 pages of compromise legislation, that would establish national minimum standards for early voting, and vote by mail and national minimum standards for non partisan making. for drawing congressional districts in federal standards for handling equipment and records, including cybersecurity around those things. it's a lot. it's 600 pages it's a lot. democrats say, every senator will support. crucially, they have put democratic senator joe manchin of west virginia in charge of scaring up ten republican senators, to vote for this measure. so it can survive another inevitable republican filibuster. that's, said the lead republican in the senate, mitch mcconnell, already promised today within hours of the bill being, announced that that
won't happen. that republicans cool, will not be supporting the bill. so what happens next year? this seems quite warranted. all the more so every day. but what is the path of getting it done? joining us now is senator raphael warnock off of georgia. he's the co-sponsor of the freedom to vote act that was introduced this morning. senator, it's a pleasure to have you with us tonight. >> thank yourachelit's great to be back with you. >> i've put this, i recognize in an alarming context. in terms of some of the very dire threats, and some of the very high cliffs that we got very close to as a country over these last few months and these myths about stolen elections have really taken hold. it seems to me. and tell me if i'm wrong here, that the freedom to vote act that you have played such a key role in introducing here today, is an effort to try to provide
light and not, he'd to try to cool down this, issue to try to be constructive and move forward in a way, that can attract very mainstream in widespread support. >> that's absolutely right,rachelour democracy is in a 9-1-1 emergency, and well there are a number of important items for us to address in this congress, and we did so for the american rescue plan, through the infrastructure work that's happening right now, the most important thing we can do right now, is pass voting rights, to secure the future of our democracy, we failed to do that, and i think we will have failed to rise in a defining moment, in our american democracy. which is why in june, when the republicans blocked our ability -- i think that's important for your viewers to know that so blocked and. you durability to have a debate about voting rights just months
after a violent insurrectionists attempt on the capitol, after seeing this regime of voter suppression bills sprout all over the country, and it seems that folks -- that to infrastructure, i insisted we can work on infrastructure and our democracy at the same time we. i approached leadership and said we can't allow this to slip away from us. i'm so happy that nine of us have been in the room senator manchin in myself, senator klobuchar and others, crafting this bill that was introduced today, to make sure that we protect the voices of the people who sent us here in the first place. >> i feel like the more time i spent time with the bill and look at its provisions, and the more i hear from you and your colleagues who have taken a role in crafting, at the more i understand about your intent, and why you think this is the right path forward.
i have to ask you about the nitty-gritty. about how it gets done. we do now have leader mcconnell making this public declaration, that just as he said, no republican senators would support the for the people, act even supporting to debate on it. he also said that republican senators will not support this. and i tend to think that leader mcconnell, whether you agree with him or disagree with, him he tends to say what he means, he tends to mean what he, says any tends to be able to count votes on his side pretty well. do you think he's wrong? do you think his mind can be changed on that? or, does it now turn to procedural efforts because the ten republican votes are gonna be there? >> the good thing about democracy is that each of us, serves on this senate, serves on the, house we were sent by the folks who voted for us. so whether or not this gets republican support, is up to each individual senator. and it seems to me that voting rights ought to be about
partisan issue. there was a time it was passed on a bipartisan basis, so we got together over the summer, we put together a bill that is intended to give broad support. it does things like ensures that there's access to the bell it. who can be against that? to make sure that eligible americans can vote. whether it's too early voting vote by mail weekend voting, it ensures that states will have same day registration the. kinds of things that just make it makes voting a sense assess-able to the average person. in addition to that, we are addressing these voter suppression laws that were seeing all across our country. that are intended to turn democracy on its head so that instead of voters picking the politicians the politicians get to select their own voters. it addresses the issues of partisan and racial gerrymandering. yet another way of squeezing the voices of ordinary people out of their democracy. and it protects the integrity of our democracy by dealing
with issues around cybersecurity and it ensures that states like georgia they have voter i.d. laws, that those laws are intended to make sure that eligible people can vote, they're not used to cherry pick certain voters. the bill provides a baseline for voting. so that you have access to that basic american right, no matter where you live. it's the most american thing we can do. it's the most important thing we can do in this congress. and i think, as important as other issues, are if we fail to do it, we will have filled the people who sent us here in the first. place to debate about all of these issues. i think that history will rightly judge us harshly. if we fail to address voting rights in this defining. moment >> among them, nine of you that worked on this, did you talk about procedural matters? if senate republicans don't come along? you make a great case on the merits.
you make a great case in terms of the nonpartisan appeal of this. the all american appeal of. this and i know senator manchin is working as hard as he possibly can to get republicans on board, but if they fit say full stop no. did you, among the nine of, your work on the legislation talk about a procedural way to get their? by finding a way around the filibuster? by carving out some rule, some space in that senate rules so it can pass? even against uniform republican opposition? >> i've been very clear from day one that we must pass voting rights no matter what. and nothing is more important. certainly not a senate rule. will cross that bridge when we get to it. i think for us to not do the work that senator manchin is attempting to do in reaching out to others i think it lets him off the hook to easily. but at the end of the day we have to protect the votes and the voices of the people of georgia and of the american people. and that's what i intended. >> senator raphael warnock of the great state of georgia. sir thank you for making time to be here. tonight it's always a pleasure
to have you here whenever you can make. it >> thank you. >> okay we have much more to get to tonight. stay with. usore to get to tonight stay with. stay with. us not just unpredictable relapses. all these other things too. it can all add up. kesimpta is a once-monthly at-home injection... that may help you put these rms challenges in their place. kesimpta was proven superior at reducing the rate of relapses, active lesions, and slowing disability progression vs aubagio. don't take kesimpta if you have hepatitis b, and tell your doctor if you have had it, as it could come back. kesimpta can cause serious side effects, including infections. while no cases of pml were reported in rms clinical trials, it could happen. tell your doctor if you had or plan to have vaccines, or if you are or plan to become pregnant. kesimpta may cause a decrease in some types of antibodies. the most common side effects are upper respiratory tract infection, headache, and injection reactions. ready for an at-home treatment with dramatic results? it's time to ask your doctor about kesimpta.
ready for an at-home treatment with dramatic results? ♪ ♪ ♪ hey google. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ i'm not getting through the pandemic just to end up with the flu. i asked for fluzone high-dose quadrivalent. it's the #1-used flu vaccine for people 65 and older. fluzone high-dose quadrivalent is the only vaccine approved by the fda for superior flu protection in adults 65+. i'm not letting my guard down. fluzone high-dose quadrivalent isn't for people who've had a severe allergic reaction to any flu vaccine or vaccine component,
including eggs or egg products. tell your health care professional if you've ever experienced severe muscle weakness after receiving a flu shot. people with weakened immune systems including those receiving therapies that suppress the immune system, may experience lower immune responses. vaccination may not protect everyone. side effects include pain, redness, and/or swelling where you got the shot, muscle ache, headache, and general discomfort. other side effects may occur. all flu shots are not the same. i raised my game with fluzone high-dose quadrivalent. ask your doctor or pharmacist for fluzone high-dose quadrivalent. in business, it's never just another day. it's the big sale, or the big presentation. ask your doctor or pharmacist the day where everything goes right. or the one where nothing does. with comcast business you get the network that can deliver gig speeds to the most businesses and advanced cybersecurity to protect every device on it— all backed by a dedicated team, 24/7. every day in business is a big day. we'll keep you ready for what's next. wisconsin?
comcast business powering possibilities.
>> because they can, because joe biden won the state of wisconsin and given the opportunity -- republicans would like to see that there was something wrong with that result. so it must be carefully checked. this new effort in wisconsin, is of course a copycat of what republicans have been doing for months now. with their hilarious sediment audit in arizona. that has in fact been hilarious at times. but from a security standpoint, that audit in arizona, has been a disaster from the very beginning. observers of that audit said that they read toonie fine the security gates left wide open at the facility where they were counting all the ballots. they said confidential manuals were left unintended. quality control measures were completely ignored. arizona republicans bungled their handling of elections machines, election equipments, and actual ballots so badly.
that the state will now spend millions of dollars replacing all the voting machines that they tampered with during this audit. because they took no measures to keep them secured. and they can't be re-certified to use in any future elections. with that backdrop, we broke all the voting machines during that election backdrop. considered dane county wisconsin, dane county is the second most popular county. joe biden won by more than 50 points in 2020. and right now i'd like you to use your imagination for a second, pretend that you are the county clerk in dane county wisconsin. you are in charge of safely administrating elections in that county. with that said republicans in your state are now joining up one of the fake arizona-style ninja audits. and with that in mind, imagine you the dean county clerk, this just got this email.
the email says please see the attach preservation. notice regards, michael j. special counsel assemblyman, this is michael gableman. he is a former judge in wisconsin, republicans in the state assembly picked him to run the arizona-style audit. after he spoke in november at a stop the steal rally. alleging that the election had been stolen from donald trump. with this email appears to look, like is an email from the guy writing a wisconsin audit, to preserve records. this is the pdf that was attached to that email, the header says that the letters from the office of the special counsel in the wisconsin state assembly, it looks like it's kind of just screen kept off the web. it doesn't look like an official letterhead. the letter starts off, gentle persons recently, i was appointed special counsel by the wisconsin assembly to investigate the november 2020 election. i hereby request that you and
your office preserve any and all records and evidence related to the november 3rd 2020 election in wisconsin, including but not limited to any information -- such information includes but is not limited to metadata return formation anoraks assaults please take all necessary steps to comply this requests including all identifications -- and it was signed michael j gableman. well sort of side, at least's name was on. this is the guys republicans put in charge to run the audit in wisconsin. but look at the email again with this preservation notice came from. his name is on the bottom of it. the email has his name at the bottom. but look at the email address was sent from, it was sent from john delta. all lower case. john delta, from a gmail address. who is john delta? why is he sending an important, highly sensitive, to county
clerks from a genial address. ? does the real michael gableman know about this? is this the real michael gableman? is that a reference to a sci-fi movie i haven't seen yet because i'm an old person now? and that's not the only thing hanky about this. go back to the letter. i mean look at that seal at the top of. it really does look like a screen cap of the state seal. that was copied off the web and flocked onto this document. this is not real letterhead. and while we're at it, let's ppe and the hood of this document. if you just look at the metadata for this pdf, the letter with the sort of bogus letterhead at the top, demanding the preservation of records of the county clerks. it shows that this pdf was offered not by age on delta, and not by michael gableman, but by somebody named andrew cluster. who is andrew cluster? why did he write this? maybe it's this andrew cluster. he's a lawyer who used to work in the trump administration. is he the author of this letter
to the county clerk in wisconsin? we don't know. the press asked him for comment, he did not respond. meanwhile public reporting around the audit, suggest that the guy in charge of the audit, maybe the disembodied voice of john delta, who knows, the guy running the audit has been consulting with a former political candidate who has been spreading conspiracy theories about the 20 election. one of his theories is that in every single state in 2020, donald trump's share of the votes was reduced by exactly 4.2%. why, where did you get that from? how did you arrive at this theory? he arrived at this theory based on his closest textualist reading of the science fiction novel, the hitchhikers guide to the galaxy. because in that science fiction satire, the answer to the biggest question in the universe, is 42. and look for point to, sure why not. that is the new consultant for the wisconsin election audit. the taxpayers are paying for.
i mean this would all be hilarious if this was not going to influence the actual election infrastructure of an actual swing state. i mean they're demanding a record request of all the real records. real data, real equipment, real data used in real election in wisconsin. and now people in wisconsin like the deigning county clerk, and all the people got that email from, god knows who at you. -- what do you do. if you're the dean in county clerk, what do you do when you get an intellect that. now that's an interesting part of the story, and that's next.
♪ when you hear 'cough cough sneeze sneeze' ♪ it's time for ♪ 'plop plop fizz fizz' ♪ alka seltzer plus cold relief, dissolves quickly... instantly ready to start working. so you can bounce back fast with alka-seltzer plus. (girl 1) feeling lost...help? (man) do what moves you. (girl 2) put yourself out there. ♪let's take a journey♪ ♪to a place where worry, is a-♪ (person) it's ok to be lost. ♪just can't comprehend♪ ♪let's take a journey♪ ♪let's take a journey♪ ♪take a journey♪
let's go walter! after you. walter, twelve o' clock. get em boy! [cows mooing] that is incredible. it's the multi-flex tailgate. it can be a step, it can even become a workspace. i meant the cat. what's so great about him? he doesn't have a workspace.
the chevy silverado with the available multi-flex tailgate. find new adventures. find new roads. chevrolet.
♪ i see trees of green ♪ the chevy silverado with the availa♪ red roses too ♪ilgate. ♪ i see them bloom for me and you ♪ (music) ♪ so i think to myself ♪ ♪ oh what a wonderful world ♪ this week yesterday in wisconsin republican in state legislature there. effectively started their effort to try and copycat the bizarre court is an election audit that has been going, excuse me ongoing in arizona for months.
that arizona effort the so far, cyber ninjas audit, has received months of national attention, and frankly ridicule. in wisconsin undaunted republicans there are pursuing the same sort of course as of right now. county clerks all over wisconsin yesterday received a letter, honestly it was sort of a strange email from a random g miller count telling them that they need to preserve records from elections equipment used in the 2020 election. in dane county wisconsin, the county clerk there scott mcdonald, immediately forwarded that random gmail request to his i.t. security department. this is healthy replied. quote scott as this email came from a genial.com address, i cannot confirm the authenticity of its origin. i would strongly recommend from replying it with any information. if these actions are an official capacity, i would expected to come from an email account from a wisconsin.com email address.
-- and at this time i would not recommend any disclosure or sensitive information until the official generals of communication have been established, and verify. joining us now is scott mcdonald, he is the county clerk in dane county wisconsin, mr. mcdonald real pleasure to have you with us tonight thank you so. much >> thank you for having me i appreciate >> it do you know if all the county clerks in wisconsin received the same sort of gmail noticed that you did? >> you know it's not clear, i think that there's an attempt to send it to all the county clerks, i know some of them received it, and some of them it went straight to their spam folder. so they read the news reporting, and started looking for. it >> besides this, missive, which was strange in a lot of ways. it was from a random gmail address. it had a pdf attached to it that the myth of data suggests it was written by a former trump administration official. who's not foreign to be
attached to. this it did not seem to be a real letterhead. the name on the genealogist didn't match the address on the g miller dress. in fact had a different name, somebody named john. a lot of obvious red flags here, was this actually the first reported official communication you received about this august? or had they been in touch with you before this in summer officially? >> no this is the first communication i got from mr. gableman, assuming that was mr. gableman. there is, there are a lot of red flags on that email as you pointed out. and it's sort of fishing one-on-one. you don't open a fake gmail account. you don't send something to that. the name did not match. the email address was. phone this is supposedly a person who is in charge of checking to make sure our election was on this and fear.
and it's pretty scary. >> i know that sort of deep in the letter, whoever wrote this letter to you, if it is from the person who is running the audit for the legislative republicans. the writer asked you to pass this request onto the municipal courts. to the town clerks. throughout dane county and presumably all the other clerks were out to pass it to all the other clerks to preserve their records and all of their information as well, i have to imagine that you're not comfortable doing that given the kind of advice you've got security wise even about responding to it yourself. >> well the thing is he didn't really ask for anything. and honestly the things that he was sort of saying we should preserve, the minute supple persons don't. have all those records reside in the county. he first made his request to the -- saying that they have it. no this is at the county level.
then he sends an email, apparently, to the county clerk saying that the municipal courts have it, when they didn't. so he really needs to spend more time, or hire another -- >> it does sound like given the questions that he's asking, and this supposed information and records that he's asking for, portray a fundamental lack of understanding about how elections or run in the state. is that fair? >> yes and he references preserving the voting machines, while the voting machines really are dumb terminals, they don't have any information on them. we quote election media, basically a thumb drive that goes into those see us to hundreds. and that's what has the information on the election, all the data is done uploaded into that. and brought back into our office. there's nothing on this machine. he could've asked someone and found that out. >> and in auspicious beginning for what i imagine is going to become an even more auspicious project as time goes on.
scott mcdonald the county clerk for dane county wisconsin, which is one of my favorite places in the whole country. thank you for your work in elections administration, and i'm sorry for this additional hustle you have to deal with. >> thank yourachel. >> we'll be right back stay with us. ♪ connecting just about everyone to just about everyone else. ♪ it can open eyes with a cup of coffee and change minds on what makes a business, a business. and it is working to connect everyone, everywhere. so, meet visa. a network working for everyone. ♪ ♪ ♪ i know the bestng coffee spot in town. i can make a rustic cabin feel modern. i am a guidebook for guests. i can make an indoorsy person, outdoorsy.
i give families a home, not just a place to stay. i am a vrbo host. ♪ ♪
i order my groceries online now. shingles doesn't care. i keep my social distance. shingles doesn't care. i stay within my family bubble. shingles doesn't care. because if you've had chicken pox, you're already carrying the virus that causes shingles. in fact, about 1 in 3 people will develop shingles, and the risk only increases as you age. so what can protect you against shingles? shingrix protects. now you can protect yourself from shingles with a vaccine proven to be over 90% effective. shingrix is a vaccine used to prevent shingles in adults 50 years and older. shingrix does not protect everyone and is not for those with severe allergic reactions to its ingredients or to a previous dose. an increased risk of guillain-barré syndrome was observed after vaccination with shingrix. the most common side effects are pain, redness,
and swelling at the injection site, muscle pain, tiredness, headache, shivering, fever, and upset stomach. talk to your pharmacist or doctor about protecting yourself with shingrix. shingles doesn't care. but we do. liberty mutual customizes car insurance so you only pay for shiwhat you need.care. how much money can liberty mutual save you? one! two! three! four! five! 72,807! 72,808... dollars. yep... everything hurts. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ ♪♪ energy is everywhere... even in a little seedling. which, when turned into fuel, can help power a plane. at chevron's el segundo refinery,
we're looking to turn plant-based oil into renewable gasoline, jet and diesel fuels. our planet offers countless sources of energy. but it's only human to find the ones that could power a better future. steve kornacki here in new york, in the news from the other coast, the west coast. california. the attempt to recall gavin newsom as governor of that state. nbc news has projected it has failed, and as you can see by the numbers, here and has failed decisively. about two thirds of the vote is now in statewide in california. it's a 2 to 1 margin. no. no on the recall of gavin newsom. it is crushing the yes in this election. you can see here the story, we've got voting all across the state here. a very good sampling across the state. you can see the pattern in this, that is just clear. southern california, los
angeles county, orange county, san diego county, these evolved becomes a very degrees democratic areas. like orange county just in recent years. and they're holding as democratic areas. newsom areas. anti recall areas. tonight the bay area, gavin newsom's home area, remember used to be the mayor of san francisco, delivering overwhelming margins against the recall here. i think what is most striking, there are still more votes to be counted, more votes to come into these numbers will change some, but what's most striking when you look at this map, and when you look at the pattern, here is how similar it is to what happened in california just last year in the presidential election, fixture eyes on this map because i'm going to flip it. like those i charts at the eye doctors, office all flip it shows you the red blue. map keep in mind, here no, yes now check out the jump biden map in the state. identical. same counties that win for trump are going for this recalls. same counties that win for biden are going against the
recall. and the margins in those biden counties are just as lopsided as they were. i'll give you an example, here down in orange county know, 57%. what did biden get here? he got about 54% of the vote. right now know is actually slightly outpacing biden in these places. so the bottom line, is it a couple weeks ago, there were some polls in california that suggested this recall might be close, the race got a lot of national attention, the president was just in yesterday, forget has been newsom to try to save him in this race, but in the end, it was a late momentum in the polling, clearly on gavin newsom side, we were all asking coming into, a hate, chance the polls are wrong in this thing, if anything, the polls undercounted, underestimated the opposition to the recall, in the end the support for gavin newsom, gavin newsom survives, he will continue to be the governor of california, the recall fails. much more in the next hour. in the next hour
okay, imagine this... your mover, rob, he's on the scene and needs a plan with a mobile hotspot. we cut to downtown, your sales rep lisa has to send some files, like asap! so basically i can pick the right plan for each employee... yeah i should've just led with that... with at&t business, you can pick the best plan for each employee and get the best deals on every smartphone. ♪ ♪ ♪ hey google. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
this is renae. never heard of her? it's probably because she's not an influencer. she's more of a groundbreaker.
just look at the way she's reshaping and reimagining her 4 acre slice of heaven. it's not hard to tell she's the real deal. renae runs with us on a john deere 1 series tractor because out here you can't fake a job well done. nothing runs like a deere. hear renae's story at deere.com. breaking news at this hour.
a huge win for democrats, in a huge win for joe biden. who made the closing argument last night to california voters, who crushed the republican campaign to recall governor gavin newsom. with 64% of the vote in, nbc use projects that nearly 67% of voters, opposed the recall effort, with only 33% supporting it.