popular he is? i think the president hanging back is meaningful there. >> ezra klein, great column, "new york times." thank you for making time. that is "all in" on this friday night. "therachelmaddowshow" starts right now. good evening,rachel. >> thanks, chris. and thanks to you at home for joining us. happy to have you here.   at this hour, the senate appears to be back on track to pass the $1.9 trillion covid relief bill after what was a weird long delay. senate democratic leaders apparently have reached a deal with west virginia conservative democratic senator joe manchin, holding out over a provision to extend unemployment benefits. but an agreement announced within the last hour seems to have brought to an end what had been a nine-hour-long stalemate in the senate as democrats and republicans yanked on manchin's arms to try to pull him in either direction to get him to sign on to their respective
proposals. bottom line, nothing much changes from earlier in the day. i don't know why this took nine hours. the resolution is apparently that the covid relief deal will result in $300 a month boost -- $300 a week boost to unemployment benefits and that will be extended through the beginning of september, september 6th. that's pretty much the way things were going to be as of this morning be there are some tweaks in terms of the taxability of these benefits. it seems like small changes for a nine-hour delay. nevertheless, they seem to have broken through. we'll keep an eye on this and bring you more as news develops. we are expecting the session -- the senate to stay in session as they continue to fight these things out. the capitol building where all these senators are negotiating and voting tonight is still surrounded by thousands of national guard troops as it has been since the u.s. capitol attack on january 6th. even now, two months later, there are moments from the attack on the capitol that still stick with you.
certain rioters, certain things that they did on camera, on tape, that get seared into your brain once you've seen them. this is one of those moments. a man in a very distinctive stars and stripes jacket with "trump" emblazoned in big letters on the back, flag jacket there. he steps up toward the capitol police guarding the doorway. he unloads a fire extinguisher at them at close range. he then chucks the fire extinguisher itself at the police. the police officers are under siege. he chucks it at them as hard as he can. there have been over 300 arrests connected to the capitol attack on january 6th but that guy is not among them. he's still at large despite that violent, deliberate attack on capitol police officers that day that is caught on tape. but we now know who that guy is for sure. thanks to reporters ryan reilly and justin cook at ""huffington post."" they reached him at phone and
got him to confirm, yeah, that was me. today they published a story revealing who he is and how they found him with the help of a remarkable amateur citizen detective. they also revealed that that amateur detective who tracked this guy down has been trying to alert the fbi to this guy's identity and his whereabouts for over a month without any discernible results from the fbi side. it's an amazing story of how this unfolded. it starts with amy. here's how they describe her. quote, amy, a woman living in a rural area out west who in her free time joined the sedition hunters network, an online sleuthing community seeking to identify the hundreds of trump support hoarse rioted at the capitol. amy is a pseudonym. while those rioters were storming the capitol amy was homesick, she'd contracted covid-19 and was recovering in isolation. after watching in horror as the insurrection unfolded she decided to use her time in
quarantine poring over footage from the attack and trying to track down individual rioters. she worked with capitol hunters as they tried to mine through a seemingly endless flow of photos and videos assigning hashtags and memorable nicknames to various persons of interest to try to bring order to chaos. she went through every clip pulled from the right-wing social media website parler. she kept going through videos and photos of the attack. #floridaflagjacket drew attention. i got locked on to this guy and the jacket because the jacket is so unique. this guy quote wasn't very incognito, thinks distinctive jacket was embroidered with trump on the front and back and his florida for trump hat offered a strong hint about what was his home state. another online investigator found a video of the florida flag jacket guy from later in the day on january 6th. in that video he speaks to a journalist who's filming him
live as cops pushed the mob back. in that video he holds up his shirt toshowoff a big bruise on his stomach apparently from a crowd control munition fired by police. then he looks straight into the camera and identifies himself. robert palmer from clearwater, florida. amy felt like she had nailed it. she sent in a tip to the fbi. and then "huffington post" reports, quote, she waited. and waited. and waited. and that's when ryan reilly and jocelyn cook, reporters, got involved. amy sent her tip about florida flag jacket guy, robert palmer, to them at "huffington post." they were able to verify his identity through public records and social media accounts. they called him. quote, reached by phone late thursday afternoon, palmer confirmed he was at the capitol on january 6th and gave the livestream interview. he claimed he'd done nothing to justify being struck with that police munition and may the
biden administration was trying to vilify the patriots involved in the riot. palmer continued, quote, i'm just going about it and letting them make the mistakes that they want and ruin the country as they want and i'm trying to live my life right now. he added the jacket he wore quote wasn't anything i had made special, i just bought it in a store. mr. palmer seemed to grow increasingly anxious as the call continued, quote, i'm just going to just leave it like that, i'm not getting myself any -- not deeper because i didn't do anything wrong but i'm not involving myself any more. quote, he hung up on when "huffington post" asked him about the fire extinguisher. the fire extinguisher he threw at the police. i bet he did. this is not the first capitol attacker these reporters have tracked down. a week ago they published a remarkable story identifying a man seen on video tasering a d.c. metropolitan officer in the
neck. identified as daniel joseph rodriguez, d.j. rodriguez, from fontana, california. that police officer, mike fanone. has described his experience being beaten and tasered by the capitol mob, tasered enough he suffered a mild heart attack. daniel rodriguez, the guy identified as being one of his attackers, one of the people who tased him, is still at large. we know what his name and is where he is. and have evidence that he did it. still at large. ryan reilly and jocelyn cook report, quote, the fbi received tips about rodriguez last month, including one from a man he assaulted on video at a los angeles-area rally. it wasn't until hours after a "huff post" interview to the bureau for this story a tipster heard from a fbi special agent for questions specifically about a man named danny rodriguez. so what's going on here? i mean, the fbi, we have seen as
they have put out all these requests for information on capitol rioters, these ongoing posts by the fbi washington field office and the fbi full stop, they keep posting these images and zoomed-in, cropped photos on individual rioters and attackers, asking the public, do you know who this person is? they really do that every day. visually striking notices when they put them out. even today. today, fbi washington field office put out more of these today. these were just from today. this was yesterday. the fbi seeking information from the public about people involved in various assaults on federal officers on january 6th. this was the day before that. new photo. fbi seeking information from the public. and listen, actually right now, you watching a the home, if you recognize any of these people, the fbi really would like to hear from you. but it's worth asking questions now as to what exactly the fbi is going to do with that information once they get it. because in a few high-profile cases, it seems like these very
credible tips and this journal stick work hasn't produced a law enforcement response. robert palmer, florida flag jacket guy, who is on video spraying a fire extinguisher at police officers and then hurling it at them, he's still at large. and as far as we can tell from this latest reporting, the fbi still has not gone and talked to him. and he's one of the people who the fbi put out calls for information on. like -- he's one of the people who the fbi put out one of these notices about. he's got a number in the fbi database in terms of which bad guy they're looking for, number 246. and still after amy, the tipster with covid out west, after she sent this info to the fbi over a month ago, and even after "the huffington post" published this great reporting today, he is fill at large and still considered by them to be a number. guy number 246 has been identified. and he says it's him. and we know where he lives and what his name is.
he wouldn't be that hard to find now. it's phenomenal reporting. and it is this fascinating phenomenon of civilians, random people, who are crowdsourcing an effort to try to find people who committed serious crimes, particularly violent crimes on january 6th at the capitol attack. why are tipster amy and ryan reilly and jocelyn cook from huff poe all over this guy but law enforcement isn't? questions. questions like that is frankly why it seems to me both wrong and weird now that the justice department isn't regularly briefing the public anymore on arrests and prosecutions and progress in the january 6th investigation. remember immediately after the capitol attack we were waiting for some sort of public law enforcement briefing and didn't get one for days. for a few days running we got briefings from the u.s. attorney at the d.c. u.s. attorney's
office about arrests and people they were seeking, potential charges they were going to face. that's been a long time now. they haven't briefed the public since january 26th. and there is turnover of an unusual kind in that office that is running the january 6th investigation. the u.s. attorney's office in d.c., that was such a troubled office, right, where trump attorney general bill barr installed all of his staffers in positions to replace people who were otherwise basically normal justice department personnel. they used that d.c. u.s. attorney's office to get all of donald trump's friends out of trouble, to go after donald trump's enemies. at least until this week, that u.s. attorney's office and the january 6th investigation was still being run by a former personal aide to bill barr who had been installed in that office under bizarre circumstances. until the biden administration took the unusual step just this week of installing their own acting u.s. attorney in that office so they don't have to wait until they nominate and confirm a permanent u.s. attorney there.
they can have their own guy running the place as of now. d.c. u.s. attorney's office has behaved in very recent history in a way that requires some public explanation in terms of weird politically driven interference in the law enforcement responsibilities of that office. but that is also the office that's handling the january 6th investigation, and we are now not getting any public explanation of anything from that office about what's going on with the january 6th investigation. we haven't heard anything from them for over a month now. listen, there's a lot. there's a lot that's wrong in federal law enforcement and at the justice department with the legacy bill barr left there. the trump administration's justice department is a smoking hulk. and it's going to take repair and it's going to take accountability to figure out all the things that went wrong and to fix them. just today, the associated press is reporting one of the many messes that awaits biden's attorney general nominee merrick garland once confirmed is what he's going to do about the
federal criminal investigation into trump attorney rudy giuliani. because the trump justice department last year, as we first reported, quashed a search warrant for giuliani's communications sought by federal prosecutors in the southern district of new york. trump appointees quashed that and said, no, you cannot get that search warrant. the investigation of giuliani remains open, prosecutors remain interested in pursuing him. how does main justin clean up the fact that trump appointees blocked it in the past? there remains the open question of how that u.s. attorney in georgia got forced out by the white house after the election when he reportedly rebuffed trump white house demands that he bring bogus voter fraud charges to try to support trump's efforts to overthrow the election in georgia? they forced his resignation after demanding that he bring bogus voter fraud charges. that seems like something we shouldn't just let go.
there's the fact that one of the senior trump political appointees in the justice department apparently offered he would tell the state of georgia they had to void their election results and declare donald trump to be the winner as part of a bid he was making that donald trump supported, to install that guy as attorney general. they tried to install him as attorney general. it was only staved off at the last moment by a mass resignation threat from everybody else left in the department. wait a minute. that all happened. and not that long ago. and the merrick garland nomination has so far been held up by senate republicans so we don't know how long it's going to take to get him in there. we don't know how he's going to behave once he is in there. boy is that a mess. that office and the senior levels of the justice department interfering in that office, that is a disaster that we are underestimating the cost of and the complexity of in terms of how that is going to be healed and held and made right.
the nexus, though, where those things come together in the d.c. u.s. attorney's office, that's where the january 6th investigation is happening, too. how much that is overall mess with bill barr's treatment of the justice department, how much is that making it harder for the justice department to execute the january 6th investigation effectively, because we know there are people at large who have been accused of committing some of the most violent acts that day who have been found by online investigators and journalists, hot fbi hasn't gotten around to yet. that doesn't seem right. there's developments around january 6th today. congressman eric swallow of california today sued donald trump for inciting the capitol riot. congressman swalwell is suing donald trump jr. and rudy giuliani and alabama congressman most brooks for their roles he says in inciting that riot. swalwell is suing under a civil rights law originally passed to
try to combat threats from the klan. congressman swalwell is the second member of congress to sue trump for the attack under that law. the first case brought by mississippi congressman betty thompson. now two cases brought against trump under that same civil rights statute. congressman swalwell's lawsuit alleges trump and his associates broke several other local washington, d.c. laws when they incited that riot, including an anti-terrorism law. there's now those two civil suits against the president around january 6th. either/or both of which may lead to among other things discovery which might allow the courts to turn up more evidence about people at the political level who were involved in the events that led to the violence that day. also tonight, just before we got on the air, news concerning how lawmakers might try to address some of the security concerns that stem from the attack. less than two weeks after the attack happened, speaker pelosi announced retired lieutenant
general russell honore who led relief efforts during hurricane katrina would lead a top to bottom-review of security failures at the capitol that day. "the new york times" has obtained a copy of that report, posted it online. it recommends among other things the establishment of a standing quick-reaction force at the capitol to respond to immediate security threats. they want to change the process to allow capitol police to activate that kind of a unit or to more quickly call up the national guard. general honore's report according to the "times" recommends adding over 800 u.s. capitol police officers to the force. not only to help protect members of congress in congress while they're in d.c., also in their home districts as well. they want -- the recommendation is also the capitol should have a -- essentially retractable barrier, a retractable fence installed around the u.s. capitol complex which they could open or shut, like the walkway over a moat, i guess, depending
on the threat level. there's a lot of the things happening even just in the past 24 hours to try to get accountability and try to make things right after what happened on january 6th. but one of the most unnerving parts of all this is the fact that the effort to try to track down the people who stormed the capitol that day appears to be led in part by journalists and random civilian internet sleuths doing this in their spare time. finding some of the people accused of some of the worst things themselves, because our thags's top law enforcement agencies haven't gotten around to it, even with all the help they are getting from those journalists and those amateurs. as inspiring as it might be about this kind of journalism and those amateurs and their detective work, it's not actually how this is supposed to go. joining us is "huff post" senior justice reporter ryan reilly, whose reporting on this has been remarkable these last few weeks.
thanks for being here. >> thanks for having me. >> first, let me give you a chance to correct me if i explained any of that wrong. you and your colleagues have done a lot of deep diving and you've had a lot of interesting interactions with members of the public who have been doing this work basically as freelancers. did i misconstrue any of that? >> not at all, you laid it out pretty well. >> in terms of the disappointment about the fbi not finding these people faster than you did and not finding these people once you've even published public-facing reporting about them, how do you view that, the disconnect between the fbi apparently seeking these people and then not going out and getting them once you and your colleagues and some intrepid amateurs have been able to find them? >> you know, i've covered the bureau for a long time. i think one thing i'm constantly
reminding myself of within these past couple of months, it's a bureau made up of normal people and citizens. as much as it has a pop culture idea of it being this sort of really great crime-fighting force, which it is, certainly being the most respected law enforcement organization in the united states, but it's still made of humans. it's this giant bureaucracy. and it doesn't have necessarily the technological capabilities that even just amateurs can do on their own outside. you just think about the logistics of this, for example. you're imagining a lot of this is happening via email, right? they have somewhat of an internal system, im system, communicate within the bureau. but it's not what you can sort of do with these hashtags and organizing it. i mean, if you just look at the scope of this. it's enormous. we're talking about literally hundreds of thousands of tips to sort through and how do you classify that information, and what sort of buckets does it go in, and what sort of ones do you
leave out, put behind, which ones do you concentrate on and say, this is something we really need to look at quickly? because even just as an example, the tips that we've gotten, trying to sort through those, we've had to figure out, which ones are we going to say we really need to focus on this, which ones are we going to have to leave by the wayside? the fbi has to do the same thing, identify the people who had a lot of violence or the people who are easiest to grab, so you sort of have these two buckets at once. you have to figure out what path here going to go down. i think it is really frustrating for these citizen sleuths who have put in a ton of work, who have been looking at this every day, to be able to say, okay, i gave this tip a month ago, i haven't heard anything back yet. that's frustrating. it sort of feels like that idea, if you threw something down a well and never heard about it again, or it feels like you put in a job application and never heard back. you're sort of sitting around waiting. i've identified this person, what's happening?
what's going on behind the scenes? because of the fbi protocols it makes it difficult for them to communicate with the public about what exactly is happening. >> although -- you and your colleagues reporting on this stuff and putting it on the front page at "huffington post" makes it much easier for everybody to find these folks. even if they're not able to sort through the high-quality tips they're getting. ryan, do you feel like the slow transition at the department of justice, and there's been an unusual transition at the d.c. u.s. attorney's office, which is where the justice department part of this is being centered -- do you feel like that transition and maybe the awkwardness of that transition might be part of the sort of bottleneck here, might be slowing up or otherwise hampering these efforts? >> yeah, i mean, we did see a lot of -- a number of career departures from within the u.s. attorney's office in d.c., sort of in that controversial period, obviously during the trump administration. so you have to sort of figure
out exactly if that had any impact on the day to day. but you know, there are also some -- if you look back even further, what the trump administration was doing earlier, the most comparable case to this i think is the j-20 arrests. basically during trump's inauguration, a number of anti-fascist protesters were arrested sort of en masse, kettled. essentially what should have happened at the capitol on january 6th. you had all these people in violation of the law. but during that first case, during the trump inauguration, it was a bunch of people on the streetwearing similar clothing and just really got the book thrown at them. the justice department really struck out with those cases. i think now they're making sure that they have their ducks in a row when they're bringing these charges forward. it's a properly good hurdle to have in place, right? if you're arresting someone and you're charging them, that's their name forever, right? this is going to be forever
associated with anyone they bring charges against. obviously you want to make sure you have your ducks lined up in a row. but it is a lot of work, and it's just something that they're really going to -- they're really having a lot of trouble, i think, sort of organizing that chaos. and that's where these online sleuths come in and are sort of able to put those pieces together in a way that overwhelmed bureaucrats might not be able to and make those connections. it's a matter of getting those connections to the attention of the fbi. sometimes it takes a journalist and a media inquiry to say, hey, what's going on with this tip? that's not only us, we've seen a lot of local news reports that a lot of these cases are built off of, essentially, where someone went back home and talked to their local tv station, and all of a sudden there's a criminal case against them. might take a month later but it's built on that interview they did with the local news. the media's playing a big role here. and additionally, the media was assaulted at this event. there are a number of people on
that fbi list who went after reporters. and that's something that is being look the at by the fbi as well. >> "huffington post" senior justice reporter ryan reilly, thank you for your time tonight. thank you and your colleagues for this really incredible reporting. it is a strange place to have to learn about the identity of these folks when the fbi is seeking them. but it's beautiful work. ryan, thanks very much for your time. >> thanks for having me. >> all right, much more ahead tonight, stay with us.
♪ hey now, you're an all-star, get your game on, go play ♪ ♪ hey now, you're a rock star, get theshowon, get paid ♪ ♪ and all that glitters is gold ♪ get 5 boneless wings for $1 with any handcrafted burger. only at applebee's. ♪ got my hair ♪ with a ♪ got my head ♪urger. ♪ got my brains ♪ ♪ got my ears ♪ ♪ got my heart ♪ ♪ got my soul ♪ ♪ got my mouth ♪ ♪ i got life ♪ ♪ for decades, most bladder leak pads were similar. until always discreet changed that. by inventing a revolutionary pad, that's incredibly thin. because it protects differently. with two rapiddry layers that overlap, where you need it most. for strong protection, that's always discreet. it's time to question your protection. it's time for always discreet.

four, five, turn, kick. we got chased by these wild coyotes! they were following her because she had beef jerky in her pocket. (laughing) (trumpet playing) someone behind me, come on. pick that up, pick that up, right there, right there. as long as you keep making the internet an amazing place to be, we'll keep bringing you a faster, more secure, and more amazing internet. xfinity. the future of awesome.
he crossed the edmund pettus bridge for the last time, rose petals strewn in his honor. 50 years earlier the bridge held his blood, while john lewis and others were attacked, john lewis nearly beaten to death. he and other marchers trying to go from selma to the state capital 50 miles away for voting rights, equal access to the ballot box. when congressman lewis died mourners lined the streets to watch that horse drawn carriage take him on his final passage as cross that bridge. joining with john lewis to cross that bridge has become an american hallmark. congressman lewis over the course of his life led more than
600 other marches across that bridge. they held a commemoration there every year to mark that bloody sunday in march 1965 when that voting rights march was attacked. this year it will be the first of those commemorations without john lewis. at this year's commemoration, because of the pandemic, people will not walk together over the bridge, they will process over the bridge in cars. they will lay a wreath on the bridge in congressman lewis' honor. that will be selma, alabama, this weekend, 56 years, 56 anniversaries of that violent police attack on americans protesting peacefully for their right to vote. in georgia, though, the state john lewis represented in congress for more than three decades, georgia right now is locked in its own modern-day crackdown on the right to vote. andrea young, executive director of the aclu of georgia, she was at one of those famous walks across the edmund pettus bridge
with john lewis. she was 10 years old at the time of bloody sunday, she was there with her dad, civil rights leader andrew young. >> thank you so much for having me,rachel. >> the voting rights battle is joined again. it seems like we have never really ended this war. can you just tell us so all our listeners understand what you're contending with in georgia right now? >> as you know, 5 million people voted successfully in our last election. nevertheless, we face a tsunami of anti-voter bills in this legislature. so on monday we're coming up on crossover day where we'll find out how many of these anti-voter bills are going to continue to be live in our legislature. one has already passed. a bill that would -- that
basically attacks every single way that people vote. it attacks early voting, it attacks same-day voting, it attacks vote by mail. and we're looking at six others that are on the calendar now from the georgia senate that would do further damage to access to the ballot. >> do you anticipate that these bills, that these curbs on voting rights, will pass the legislature, they will be signed into law, and ultimately this is going to be a little fight, that these are going to end up in court? or do you think there is enough alarm and enough pushback that some of these may get stopped either in the legislature or at the level of the statehouse and the governor's office before they become law? >> well,rachel, we are pushing back with everything that we can. my staff is every day at the capitol, 7:00 a.m. hearings, analyzing every bill, educating every legislator, our aclu
members are calling, thousands of them. and so we are seeing some success in pushing back. we know that actually all of these measures were put in place by republican governors, republican secretaries of state. and they were all fine until 5 million people were successfully using them to elect the candidates of their choice. so of course aclu, we are nonpartisan. we always will look at the litigation options. but we are fighting. we plan to fight to midnight on the last day. this weekend, the all-star game is coming into town. lebron james i know is raising up this issue. what happens in georgia is of national importance because of
how people like raphael warnock and jon is on love, and raphael warnock will be up again in two years. >> andrea young, executive director of the aclu in georgia, right in the middle of what is going to be a knock down, drag out fight in georgia. thank you. >> thank you, great to be here. wealth is breaking ground on your biggest project yet. worth is giving the people who build it a solid foundation. wealth is shutting down the office for mike's retirement party. worth is giving the employee who spent half his life with you, the party of a lifetime. wealth is watching your business grow. worth is watching your employees grow with it.
principal. for all it's worth. among my patients i often see them have teeth sensitivity as well as gum issues. does it worry me? absolutely. sensodyne sensitivity and gum gives us a dual action effect that really takes care of both our teeth sensitivity as well as our gum issues. there's no question it's something that i would recommend. ordinary tissues burn when theo blows. so dad bought puffs plus lotion, and rescued his nose. with up to 50% more lotion puffs bring soothing softness and relief. a nose in need deserves puffs indeed.
warnock will be up again in two

history was made today for the dumbest possible reason. today in the senate they have been trying to pass the covid relief bill. earlier in the day you might have seen headlines about the fact that the senate took a vote on senator bernie sanders' proposal to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour. that failed. all republicans voted against it, and incredibly eight democrats voted against it as well. news in its own right. but after that they started arguing in the senate amongst themselves, they started arguing with joe manchin, about
unemployment benefits in the covid relief bill. they argued over that for nine hours. they ultimately blended somewhere, which is very, very close to where they started, but they had nine hours of fighting about it. turns out in that time they never technically gaveled shut the vote on bernie sanders' minimum wage thing, which means accidentally we just had the official longest vote in senate history by mistake for nine hours for no reason. congratulations. as for the final passage of this bill, we've been expecting it sometime this weekend. with this pointless nine-hour delay, it's unclear when they're going to see this thing getting passed. but watch this space. and rescued his nose. with up to 50% more lotion puffs bring soothing softness and relief. a nose in need deserves puffs indeed.
why choose proven quality sleep from sleep number? because a good night's rest is where muscles recover, and our minds are restored. the new sleep number 360 smart bed is temperature balancing. and it helps keep you asleep by sensing your movement and automatically adjusts to keep you both effortlessly comfortable.
perfect for those relaxing weekends. proven quality sleep, is life-changing sleep. only from sleep number. i mean i know it's silly, but i have an image. ya know, 6 foot 5, 300 pounds. so the thought of getting a hearing aid, i was.. i was scared. for the last couple years i've been having real hearing loss. all i knew from the past was seeing folks with big things on their ears, so i didn't want to be that guy. one of the joys of my life is riding my motorcycle with my wife. if you're not confident riding a motorcycle, you could get in trouble. i would always have to turn, so i could hear better, that was a... that was bad. and i just kept fightin' it. with lively, did a hearing test on the computer. when they sent them in the mail they were already set up for me. the whole process was so simple. right away lively started working. my confidence is 100% boosted, it's night and day. this little thing right here, has made me whole again. a test in minutes, hearing aids in days,
better hearing in no time. get started today at listenlively.com this thing works, ya know. i can hear again. ♪ for every idea out there, that gets the love it should ♪ ♪ there are 5 more that don't succeed ♪ this thing works, ya know. ♪ and so are lost for good ♪ ♪ and some of them are pretty flawed ♪ ♪ and some of them are slightly odd ♪ ♪ but many are small businesses that simply lack the tool ♪ ♪ to find excited people who will stop and say 'that's cool'♪ ♪ and these two, they like this idea ♪ ♪ and those three like that one.♪ ♪ and that's 'cause personalized ads ♪ ♪ find good ideas for everyone ♪ use a single hr software? nope. we use 11. eleven. why do an expense report from your phone when you can do it from a machine that jams? i just emailed my wife's social security number to the entire company instead of hr, so... please come back. how hard is your business software working for you? with paycom, employees enter and manage their own hr data in one easy-to-use software.
visit paycom.com for a free demo. hon? first off, we love each other... if you love it, spoon it. introducing colliders. your favorite candy flavors twisted, chopped or layered into a dessert that's made to spoon. new colliders desserts. find them near the refrigerated pudding.   he was from wichita, kansas. there's a high school, a catholic high school in wichita, kansas, named after him to this day. and this photo is on display at that high school. in the foreground of the photo you can see you have these two
american soldiers helping a third, helping a wounded man who's got his hands up at his face balled into fists. the soldier on the left side of the photo who's helping carry the wounded man with his left arm, in his right hand holding his rifle. you see another soldier in the background, his rifle as well. look at the soldier helping the wounded man on the right side of the photograph. he is helping the wounded man, he is out there on the battlefield with all of them. if you look closely, you can see that he's not carrying a gun. it's not just that he has one and you can't see it because of the way the photo's framed. he is, in fact, unarmed on that battlefield. and if you look at his helmet, you can see why. you see the cross there in front? he is an army chaplain. he's a captain in the army serving here in the korean war, army chaplain, he's a catholic priest. he is name is amil j. kapan. his unit was overrun by chinese
forces in fierce fighting in the korean war in november 1950. the white house would later say in a commendation, chaplain kapan calmly walked through withering enemy fire in order to provide comfort and medical aid to his comrades. his unit took so many casualties and their position was so hopeless as they were surrounded by chinese troops that the men in the unit who were not wound asked were able-bodied enough to be able to move, they were ordered to retreat to avoid being captured. captain kapan was able-bodied, he was not wounded, but he elected instead to stay with the wounded men. and he and all of them were all taken captive. they were marched for days on end. they were ultimately held for months in subzero conditions and while starving. part of what they were fed was bird seed. the men who survived the ordeal later would fight for years, for decades, to have chaplain kapan awarded the medal of honor, the
highest award we have in this country, because of what they said he did to protect and buoy the prisoners to keep them alive through that terrible winter while they were prisoners. everything from salvaging bits of tin roofing materials and then reshaping them into cooking pots so the men could use those makeshift cooking pots to boil their water so they wouldn't get dysentery. he stole food, he foraged food and distributed it among the prisoners. any prisoners found to be hoarding food, he persuaded them to share it. he washed men's clothes. he led a sunrise mass on easter morning, march 25th, 1951. all these things. his comrades, his fellow prisoners said he did to keep them all going. the soldiers he served with and held prisoner with, he said he saved the lives of hundreds of them. chaplain kapan himself didn't make it. he died in the prison camp, the army says he died of exhaustion
and possibly heart failure. he was all of 35 years old. he died in may 1951. more than 40 years later, in 1993, pope john paul ii declared amil kapan to be a servant of god, which as nice compliment for any believer. when the pope bestows that name on you, it means you have taken the first step to potentially being canonized, potentially being declared a saint by the catholic church. that was 1993. 20 years after that, in 2013, president obama held a white house ceremony to in fact award chaplain kapan the medal of honor. >> this year, we mark the 60th anniversary of the end of the korean war. a time when thousands of our prisoners of war finally came home after years of starvation
and hardship and in some cases torture. and among the homecomings, one stood out. a group of our p.o.w.s emerged carrying a large wooden crucifix nearly four feet tall. they had spent months on it, secretly collecting firewood, carving it, the cross and the body, using radio wire for a crown of thorns. it was a tribute to their friend, their chaplain, their fellow prisoner who had touched their souls and saved their lives. father emil kapaun. >> that was 2013, eight years ago. father kapaun being awarded the medal of honor almost 62 years after he died in that prison camp. well, today, today, 70 years after he died in that prison camp, today the u.s. army announced that his remains have
been located. he has been found. a statement today from army chief of staff james c. mcconville. the defense p.o.w. m.i.a. accounting agency announces today korean war medal of honor recipient army chaplain emil joseph kapaun has been accounted for. 70 years after his death. now, i am not a good enough catholic to know how the canonization process really works in practice. i don't know if they will ever confer official sainthood upon him. but nationally our country's highest honor is one that he has already received. and now, all these decades later, he has been found today, today. the same pope who put father kapaun potentially on the path to sainthood, pope john paul ii, in the year 2000, pope john paul ii announced plans he was going to become the first pope ever in
history to travel to iraq. iraq is the site of some of the oldest christian civilizations on earth. in the year 2000 when pope john paul planned to visit, there were only about 1.5 million christians left in iraq. but christian communities there iraq. but christian communities had found a way to survive. they were very, very resilient. iraq is full of ancient holy sites for christianity. there's the plain of ur. it's believed to be the birth place of abraham. abraham, of course, is revered by christians and muslims and jews alike. but in the year 2000 i don't know paul the second made plans to visit, he said he would be the first pope ever to visit iraq, visit iraq's beleaguered christian communities. saddam hussein was the dictator and saddam hussein said no, he
blocked it, so that trip didn't happen. in 2003 the united states invaded iraq which set off wave after wave of catastrophe and apocalyptic fighting. the beleaguered community of christians is now down to somewhere between 200,000 and 500,000, and it is not hard to understand why. in the later years of the islamic state in iraq, isis, they actually used christian churches in iraq as firing ranges. in 2010 al kei da in iraq launched an attack. they used grenades and bullets and suicide vests. they killed 58 people in the church in that attack including two priests. there's a memorial mural painted on the blast walls showed all 58 people killed that day. there's also a mural right next to that showing francis, who is
now of course the catholic pope. well, today francis came to iraq. his two predecessors as pope had both tried to come to iraq, had both tried to be the first pope to ever visit iraq. neither of them was able to do it. pope francis has not travelled anywhere in the year because of the coronavirus pandemic. his first trip anywhere was here, was here to iraq. today he visited that church where dozens of christians were massacred in 2010. tomorrow he will visit ur, the birth place of abraham, where he will host an interfaith meeting of christians and jews and muslims rjs all of whom revere abraham. iraq is the first shiite majority country he's visited. he's reclusive, doesn't leave his home, does not meet visiting dignitaries no matter where they're from except for the
pope. he is making an exception. they will meet tomorrow, which is an important thing. pope francis will visit mosul. he'll perform an outdoor mass on sunday and erbil in northern iraq. he's there. he's going to do an outdoor mass. he says, quote, i come as an pen tant asking forgiveness from heaven for my brothers and sisters for so much construction and cruelty. these two events in the news in the same day, they're not connected all that much, but they are a reminder, i think, to sort of stay ready to be aware of the fact that things that seem impossible can one day just happen. i mean, impossibly difficult things sometimes untangle and it's never easy or uncomplicated
when it happens. these aren't knots that get severed with a sword. they're things that need to be untangled. the pope's visit is complicated. crowds are turning out to see him, even as they have tried to plan things to keep people apart and away. the refusing the vaccine if you can get it is wrong. he's described it as suicidal, which is a grave sin in the church. he's promoted vaccines, promoted masks, promoted compassion for those living with covid. there's zero vaccine access in that country with not much hope for it on the horizon. it's complicated. the accounting for father kapaun is incredible. after 70 years, 70 years since his death, it's incredible. and it is also unconscionable that it took 70 years to recover hum. it's never simple. and things that seem impossible
seem that way because they are so hard to fix, because they are so hard to find a way through. but sometimes -- sometimes twice in i addai, an impossible thing breaks open, becomes real, becomes fact, becomes today's news. and for me in the news days like that are an absolute cure for the million stick in the mud nothing is going to better voterama days that come in between days like this. sometimes the impossible really does just happen. be ready. we'll be right back. can actually attract pet hair? with bounce pet hair & lint guard, your clothes can repel pet hair. look how the shirt on the left attracts pet hair like a magnet! pet hair is no match for bounce. with bounce, you can love your pets, and lint roll less.
where can a healthier heart lead you? for people with heart failure taking entresto, it may lead to a world of possibilities. entresto is a heart failure medicine prescribed by most cardiologists. it was proven superior at helping people stay alive and out of the hospital. heart failure can change the structure of your heart so it may not work as well. entresto helps improve your heart's ability to pump blood to the body. and with a healthier heart, there's no telling where life may take you. don't take entresto if pregnant; it can cause harm or death to an unborn baby. don't take entresto with an ace inhibitor or aliskiren,
or if you've had angioedema with an ace or arb. the most serious side effects are angioedema, low blood pressure kidney problems, or high blood potassium. ask your doctor about entresto for heart failure. entrust your heart to entresto.

okay. this is something that i learned today that i just think that you should know too. i can't quite believe it. i am assured that it is true, but i want you to know about it. this might come in handy at your life in some point. learn this right now and file it away. every once in a while in the tv news business you have to go somewhere random on no notice to go cover a story on the scene. then after you've done that you have to produce a tvshowthat night and the tvshowmay or may not include the story you were out in the field working on. it may or may not be for that night'sshow. it's a fun thing. it could also be hectic or difficult. it also means you end up producing ashowout of cobbled together random workspace that wasn't designed for what we do, that wasn't designed for making tv shows.
luckily, our company has a whole bunch of really, really impressive people who are devoted to making that happen, people macgyver. one of these macgyver types is a magician incredibly capable field i.t. guy, dan. dan peterson. and dan just got married. and true to the spirit of every shoot i've done with him, he did it in a place i never would have guessed you would do that thing. dan got married at taco bell in las vegas. this is dan on the left and his now husband jitu on their wedding day at a taco bell in las vegas. doing things in unexpected places in dan's specialty. mazel tov, you guys. just in case you ever need to