association for the first time on the issue of abortion rights itself, and they said, you know, the court's integrity is on the line. >> the great showdown between the anglo-saxons of the world. thank you very much.   that is all for this evening. "therachelmaddowshow" starts right now. good evening,rachel. >> good evening, chris. much appreciate it.   when world war i started here in the united states, the president was woodrow wilson. woodrow wilson was bound and determined that the united states would not get itself involved in that war. that really worked for him politically for a while. woodrow wilson was elected in 1912, world war i started in europe two years later, 1914. woodrow wilson really wanted us
to stay out of it at all costs. when he ran for reelection in 2014, he ran with the slogan "he kept us out of war." that was true. he had kept us out of a war at that point. that was a popular enough sentiment in the united states at that time that wilson got reelected as president, in part thanks to those bragging rights along those lines, by keeping us out of the great war. he was reelected in 1916, but world war i was nevertheless dragging on, right, and expanding. it started in 1914, it dragged on into 1915, into 1916, into 1917. it involved dozens of countries, a huge swath all over the world that really was reshaping the world in all the alliances that various countries were in all over the world. ultimately the germans started sinking our ships in the atlantic even though we technically weren't part of the war yet. other countries in our
hemisphere started getting dragged into it. by the spring of 1917, not even six months after wilson had been reelected on that slogan, he kept us out of war. six months after that election, the u.s. congress, in fact, voted to declare war. and we jumped in. but the political wrangling over that decision in our country was really something back in 1917. and it turns out that political wrangling back then in 1917 over the decision to turn america around and abandon our previous isolationist pose and get ourselves involved in world war i, all the political wrangling around that hard decision in 1917 left us a little parting gift that we're still enjoying today. a little parting gift, in fact, that is still totally screwing us up today. because one of the many objections that people had at
the time to us entering world war i was cost. it was going to be expensive. we didn't have the means to pay for it at the time. and then like some finite expenditure on something we needed to build here at home in the u.s. entering that giant mega war in europe that was already years old, it just seemed like it would be a bottomless expenditure that we would never be able to control. and there is logic to that. war does have a way of doing that fiscally. but while the u.s. was turning itself around and getting ready to enter the war, anyway, while arguably we are being sort of dragged into that war, part of the way they tried to win over people who had objected to us joining the war on cost grounds, people who are worried about the expense of it all. part of the way they tried to placate those critics was to create a new thing in u.s. law, a new limit in the law on what our country could spend on anything. we could spend up to x amount,
but if for any reason the government wanted to spend any more than that, the congress would have to affirmatively regroup, write a piece of legislation and pass a new limit on what we could spend. that process was created in 1917 to placate the isolationists who didn't want us to enter world war i. that is the very specific history of how we got what we call the debt ceiling. we got it in 1917, the same year we did finally declare war on germany. and, you know, we eventually got over the whole gigantic, endless, apocalyptic war with germany thing, it took two tries, but we didn't get over the debt ceiling gimmick that we used to placate people who object to the first one of those wars. we kept that for some reason for more than a hundred years we
have kept that. it doesn't function as a barrier to our government spending money, obviously. it doesn't even keep us from spending rapaciously on wars. it gives congress something to do that they have to do every so often because the country economy will fling itself into a debt because nobody thought to stop this stupid thing we turned on in 1917 because we need to do placate people who felt bad that we changed our minds over entering that war. in the 100-plus years we've been saddled with this thing, it loomed larger and smaller depending on the decades, but in 1916 congress had to vote to raise the stupid debt ceiling
dozens of times, nearly a hundred times under presidents of both parties. again, it's work that you have to do for no benefit. you get nothing positive for doing it. but if you don't do it, fiery financial disaster on a national, and indeed, international scale. it's like if you have a backyard at your house or your apartment and you decided you were going to keep a pirana-filled lagoon right there. then you could tell your kids not to fall in and get eaten by the pirhanas. why would you do that?
they might fall in. why would you set a trap like that in your yard? why would you set a trap like this in american law? thanks to this trap, if congress fails at any time for any reason to do this dumb procedural thing they don't want to do for which they get no credit or no benefit, at any reason at any time the congress fails to do that, the country gets it. default on our debt, downgrade our credit rating. potentially trillions of dollars for extra expenses for our country for no reason. why would you put a pirahna-filled pond by our law? we have kept it ever since. there it is. this time four years ago in 2017, donald trump was in his first year as president of the
united states, crazy as that still seems, right? in 2016 he had been elected president. presidents in that election both were members of the senate, and one problem they did not have that first year donald trump was president, they didn't have a problem over raising the stupid debt ceiling. this time four years ago, september 2017, democrats are out of power in the white house. they're in the minority in both houses of congress, but nevertheless, september 2017 democrats agreed. they voted to pass a spending bill that kept the government from shutting down, keeps the lights on, and in that bill they agreed to raise the debt ceiling. september 2017 passed both the house and senate by overwhelming margins. not a single democrat voted no in the senate.
not a single democrat voted no in the house, even though there was a republican-controlled congress and a republican-controlled senate, they voted unanimously not to throw the country in the proverbial pirahna pit. yes, the republicans are in charge, but let's not raise our bills and put our world into more debt for no reason. it doesn't matter if republicans are in charge. we should vote unanimously that does not happen. that was four years ago, september 2017. now it is september 2021 and it's the mirror image in terms of partisan control. now we have democratic president joe biden who is in his first year as president. in the 2020 elections last year, democrats secured narrow
majorities in both the house and the senate. and just like september 2017, once again, it is time to do that thing that we have been doing since world war i. once again it is time to take that dumb vote to, a, keep the government funded so avoid a government shutdown, and also raise the debt ceiling in order to placate the ghosts of the austria hungarian playground. if we don't do it, real problems, high prices, self-inflicted wound. it is time to do that again. and this time it's democrats in control. republicans say they won't do it. they will not vote to keep the lights on. they will not vote to avoid a government shutdown, and they will not vote to raise the debt ceiling. in fact, they say they will filibuster the debt ceiling vote, which means that democrats
can't even raise the debt ceiling with just a majority vote. it will mean that democrats can't raise the debt ceiling unless they get ten republican senators to side with them, and republican senate leader mitch mcconnell says no republicans are going to do that. when trump and the republicans were in charge four years ago, democrats did this unanimously for the country. now that biden and the democrats are in charge, republicans stand unanimously against it. so apparently we're going to take a deliberate leap into the pirahna pool unless something changes soon. tonight the house just in the last half hour has voted for legislation to keep the lights on to avoid a government shutdown, and for our country to stay out of the proverbial pirahna pool. the house has voted to raise the debt ceiling. democratic house speaker nancy pelosi knows how to drive the
bus here, so there's not much suspense as to whether the white house would get this done. that said, zero republicans voted with the democrats to do this. it was a pure party line vote. it has now passed the house, again, just within the last few minutes, so this means it goes to the senate. and in the senate, republicans say they won't do it. they say, listen, if democrats are in control, then the u.s. should default on our debt, crash our credit rating because something, something, neener, neener, we don't like you. we're not going to allow you to do it. it doesn't matter that the democrats voted unanimously to do that when the republicans were in control. the republicans say no, screw it. as i mentioned, passing that ceiling legislation doesn't actually get you anything. it doesn't do anything for the country except avoid a self-inflicted disaster. but while the senate is going to
have to try to get through this murder-suicide plan from the republicans, democrats are simultaneously also right now trying to definitely pass legislation that has a big upside as far as they're concerned. they're trying to pass legislation that encompasses most of president biden's agenda for his first term. something they will also have to do without republicans and something the democrats will have to agree to pull together on in order to get it done. so we've got to deal with stopping the government shutdown, we've got to deal with this debt ceiling thing, and nobody knows how they're going to do that, but there's also this positive legislative agenda that biden will have to get done and it is an agenda for his whole term. it's going to happen now or it's not going to happen. a handful of conservative democrats in the house, a couple contrarian democrats in the
senate have gotten attention for weeks, for months, in their attempt to block the senate if they don't get what they personally want as conserative democrats. this was the scene today when the leader of the progressive caucus came out of a 90-minute meeting with house speaker nancy pelosi. you have to take my word for it that jayapal is in there. you can't see her because she's trying to hear what reporters are saying to her about what went on in that meeting. that press corps there is actually a healthy development in terms of the coverage here, because primila jayapal doesn't oppose what the democratic president and the democratic party are trying to do here.
primila jayapal poses for more than half the democrats in congress. 95 members are the ones which jayapal leads. no, they don't want to jump into the pool of piranhas and hurt the country. that's what the republicans are doing. they are voting to keep the country open and to raise the debt ceiling so we don't hit those crises, but they're also working on this positive legislative agenda in a very muscular way. today they are flexing their muscles as progressives, counting their members of whom there are many. taking a stand today and tonight that they want to go big. they want the president's bill to pass in its entirety, this
$3.5 trillion bill that covers much of his agenda for the whole first term. they do not want to pass this bipartisan bill. the progressives are insisting that nobody is going to get anything until the infrastructure bill, the big one, moves as well. primila jayapal today said they are not bluffing. >> are these packages still coupled or have they been decoupled? >> no. she is very clear that she doesn't have the votes to pass the infrastructure bill without reconciliation. >> the progressives were bluffing about tanking the bill. what do you say to them? >> try us. we're going to deliver the
entirety of the agenda to the president. >> try us. some people say you're bluffing by your strategy here. try us. primila jayapal leads the democratic caucus. they are trying not to hit the debt ceiling. thanks, republicans. trying to avoid a government shutdown. thanks, republicans. they're trying also to pass the legislation that contains the bulk of president biden's agenda. it is jayapal's progressive caucus that has the numbers here. they are using them aggressively to try to get this done. what are the prospects? joining us now is congresswoman primila jayapal. she's chair of the progressive caucus, even though it is her birthday. happy birthday, congresswoman, thank you for joining us. >> i can't think of a better way to spend my birthday than with you. >> i can think of tons of better ways to spend your birthday than
being on national tv, with or without me. it makes me more thankful that you're here, especially since your having high stakes negotiations and high stakes meetings, really in crunch time now. tell me in your own words where you think this process is right now and how close the democrats are to a decision. >> yeah. you characterized it perfectly. i just want to take it back a minute to when president biden got elected and before that, what he campaigned on. it was on universal child care, paid leave, making sure we repaired housing, making sure we addressed climate change, addressed health care. these are all things he campaigned on. when he became president, this was the agenda he put forward and it was called the build back better agenda. we progressives three and a half months ago just said, let's pass the whole thing together, jobs, infrastructure and all of these
other pieces that i mentioned, which are the largest part of the president's agenda. when it became clear that some moderate democrats, conservative democrats, whatever you want to call it, wanted to have a bipartisan infrastructure bill, we said, we're not willing to leave out women by cutting back the work force by needing child care, so we will agree to that bipartisan bill if, and only if, we also pass the reconciliation bill first. that was our position, we whipped our members on it. over half the caucus three months ago today said we will vote for both bills. we will vote for the bipartisan infrastructure bill which is much smaller, and frankly,rachel, it has a lot of things our members don't like. but if we can get the reconciliation bill that has the majority of the president's agenda in it, the majority of what we ran on, then we will
vote for both bills. that has been our position three months ago, it remains our position today. now, when the senate passed the bipartisan bill, senator sanders, senator warren, many other progressive senators only voted for that bipartisan bill because they were given a commitment by the senators in the democratic party and the president that we would move these two things together, the reconciliation bill, the build back better act, as it's called now, and the bipartisan bill. so they come up to the house, and all of a sudden the tables get turned on us and we are now finding people are saying, oh, no, just pass the infrastructure bill, and you know what, we'll get to child care later. wield get to paid leave later. well,rachel, we are committed to delivering the entirety of the president's agenda to the president's desk. and that is what we have had to do. the speaker says it beautifully. she says, the children have the leverage and we're not going to give that up. this is the leverage for
transformational investments that people will wake up feeling differently about themselves and will know that government delivered for them. over half of our caucus has said that they will not just vote on the bipartisan infrastructure bill, we have to vote on the reconciliation bill first and then we will, even though some people don't like it, we'll vote for the bipartisan bill bautz we all understand we're part of the democratic team, thgs the democrats' agenda and we're ready to vote for both bills. anybody that is blocking the reconciliation bill is voting against the democratic agenda. so, look, it is a tough deal now. we're trying to get the reconciliation bill done. we need the senate to actually work with us to say, okay, we are pre-conferencing everything which means we have to agree between the congress, the senate and the white house. we're not passing something
senate to senate, they pass it back -- no, no, that takes too much time. we're going to pass one bill that everyone agrees on. once we pass that bill, we will vote also for the bipartisan bill and we will see both of them on the president's desk for a signature. >> how much distance is there between you and speaker pelosi on this? we've seen all these -- it's like the irresistible template headlines from the press. democrats in disarray! they all write themselves. internal strife among democrats. when you had this meeting with speaker pelosi, you came out afterwards and spoke to reporters about the same things you talked about here and the broader ways you think about this. but are you and speaker pelosi pulling in the same direction, or is there distance that needs to be bridged between you to get to our country ascribing. >> the speaker has been really
good about really pushing for the entire agenda, and she also understands that if we have over half of the progressive caucus that won't vote for the bipartisan bill, she is a master vote counter. she is not going to bring a vote to the floor that she knows is going to fail. she's been trying to communicate that to the senate and the house and to say they are all ready to vote for the bipartisan bill, we just have to pass the reconciliation bill first. there hasn't been distance. she's been a great champion that we make sure we get women back to work, that we get free college to people, paid leave, child care, all of these things, and of course that we fight climate change which is so crucial in this moment. the bipartisan bill doesn't have any of that,rachel. if we were to just vote on the bipartisan bill, we would leave behind all of these other
priorities. 60% to 70% of the president's priorities would be left on the table with no urge to do anything. really, she's been a very strong champion of pushing for all of these things. again, as i said, i wanted to make sure she understood that we simply don't have the votes, and she really does get that. >> congresswoman primila jayapal, progressive caucus which is a large caucus, 95 democratic members in the house which means it has a lot of weight to throw around. we are seeing that process at work right now as this process works its way through congress. congresswoman, thank you very much for joining us. i hope the rest of your night doesn't involve any cable news and lots of birthday things. >> thank you very much,rachel. nice to talk to you. >> thank you. much more ahead. stay with us. >> thank you much more ahead. stay with us ♪ wednesday, payday♪ ♪ thursday, payday♪ ♪ friday, payday♪ ♪ saturday, payday♪ ♪ sunday, payday♪ ♪
♪ payday, payday♪ ♪ ♪payday♪ (naj) at fisher investments, our clients know we have their backs. ♪ (other money manager) how do your clients know that? (naj) because as a fiduciary, it's our responsibility to always put clients first. (other money manager) so you do it because you have to? (naj) no, we do it because it's the right thing to do. we help clients enjoy a comfortable retirement. (other money manager) sounds like a big responsibility. (naj) one that we don't take lightly. it's why our fees are structured so we do better when our clients do better. fisher investments is clearly different.
tonight... i'll be eating a buffalo chicken panini with extra hot sauce. tonight... i'll be eating salmon sushi with a japanese jiggly cheesecake. jolly good fire nas... yeah? spare a pound? what? you know, bones, shillings, lolly? lolly? bangers and mash? i'm... i'm sorry? i don't have any money. you don't look broke... my rocket is skint! ♪ limu emu & doug ♪ you don't look broke... got a couple of bogeys on your six, limu. they need customized car insurance from liberty mutual so they only pay for what they need. what do you say we see what this bird can do? woooooooooooooo... we are not getting you a helicopter. looks like we're walking, kid.
only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ ♪ when you hear 'cough cough sneeze sneeze' ♪ it's time for ♪ 'plop plop fizz fizz' ♪ alka seltzer plus cold relief, dissolves quickly... instantly ready to start working. so you can bounce back fast with opreza: trabajar en recology es más que un empleo para mí, es una tradición familiar. tomé la ruta de mi padre cuando se retiró despues de 47 años. ahora le muestro a la nueva generación lo que es recology como una compañia que pertenece a los empleados. estamos orgullosos de haber creado el sistema de reciclaje. convirtiendo a san francisco, en la ciudad mas verde de america... sigamos haciendo la diferencia juntos.
president biden addressed
the u.n. general assembly today, his first address to the u.n. as president. he covered a lot of ground in his speech. one part of his address to the general assembly today really caught my attention because of something else going on in today's news. >> we're hardened in our critical infrastructure intense cyberattacks, discussing ransomware, clearing a road for all nations when it comes so cyberspace. . >> hardening our critical infrastructure used in cyberattacks. you might remember that when this spring a critical hacking group based in russia shut down the largest fuel pipeline on the east coast with a ransomware attack. remember that, they shut down
the pipeline for weeks. critical places like hospitals, things we can't live without, that's supposed to be america's bright line when it comes to cyberattacks. that's why the president said we act decisively when that line is crossed. now we've heard of a new cyberattack on a very critical infrastructure that is our food supply. the company hit this time is an iowa-based farming cooperative called new cooperative. among other things they provide feed for 11 million farm animals in this country. their computer system was hit yesterday. now they are operating with pen and paper. some of the farm co-op's negotiations with these cyber criminals that are trying to ransom them have been posted on line.
they are going out of the way to explain to the hackers that they are crossing this bright line. the fact hackers don't care and explain they don't care, it's like a movie. here's the quote. we are the infrastructure, we are in line with the food supply chain in the u.s. there is going to be a very public disruption to the grain, and chicken supply. the impact of this attack will likely be much worse than the pipeline attack. i'm just telling you so you're not surprised because you don't seem to understand who we are, what role our company plays in the food supply chain. it's the co-op speaking to the hackers. after all of that, the hackers reply, no one will give you decrypters for free. look for money. meaning, we don't consider you to be on the other side of that bright line. well, if the u.s. were to respond decisively here since this bright line has been very
overtly crossed, what would that actually mean? i mean -- i'm not the world's techiest person. if there is a piece of technology that can't be fixed by restarting it, i'm sort of out of luck. luckily for us, yesterday a very distinguished computer scientist named dmitri parovich, he published an op-ed in the "new york times" explaining what it might mean for america to go on the offense for these matters. he laid out a proposal for america targeting ransomware criminals and these hacking groups essentially the same way they attacked cyber groups online, giving information about the perpetrators, taking down their servers, and when they think they're operating on their own terms, they're actually operating on ours.
we contacted the former cybersecurity cyber chief chris cribbs about how the u.s. should be handling things now. he said that what paparovich is proposing is, quote, release the hounds on these criminal groups. as far as we know, mr. cribbs meant that in a good way. joining us now is dmitri alperovich. thank you for joining us. >> thank you for having me. >> am i correct that you think america needs to be more offensive to these groups in a way that would be more destructive to them, and we have for now reserved the skills for international terrorist groups and have not applied it as
aggressively as we could toward groups like this. >> there's no question we have the skills. we have a thousand workers in maryland working on cyberattacks which is what we gave them billions of dollars to do. unfortunately, we currently use that capability primarily to go after nation states, go after terror groups. we have not used them to go to criminal groups, and i think it's time we do that. we had this g-7 summit with president putin and it's clear that president putin hasn't lifted a finger to try to stop these groups, most of which operate in russia, so it's long past time for us to take matters into our own hands and try to get these groups shut down online and make their lives very difficult with cyber operations. >> i feel like most of us who are outside the cyber and cybersecurity world run up pretty quickly against the idea
of blowback, that when we talk about defense capabilities, hardening yourselves as a target, and then you talk about going after the perpetrators of these kinds of crimes and attacks, one of the things we hear from your sector is that the potential blowback, the potential effects of a certain action may be hard for us to conceptualize, hard for us to get our head around. if the u.s. government did do the kind of things you're prop proposing, treating these groups effective how we've treated terrorist groups, what might the blowback be? >> this concern about blowback is something that's been raised for 30 years now. any time the u.s. has talked about engaging in cyber operations, the response has been, no, we can't do that, we have all these vulnerabilities, it's going to come bck and haunt us. our adversaries have not done it
this way. russia and others have launched cyberattacks on us without any concern for blowback. when we look at the evidence of the last 20 years, cyber has not led to escalation so far, and when it comes to these groups that constrain themselves, does anybody believe that? when they're going after colonial pipeline, the co-op infrastructure, we basically tell them that we decide whether it's credit cooler not critical and they get to decide whether they go after it or not. that gives way too much freedom to these cyber criminals. >> in terms of biden's approach to this, including that meeting with president putin and president biden where they address this matter directly, the biden administration has been very focused on the idea that russia has essentially
given groups like this a place to operate from. they've given them safe haven in a way that pakistan was offering the taliban to reorganize across borders. so the afghan war was never going to be one because they always had safe haven in pakistan across the border. that problem is similar with russia giving these groups a place to operate from. not so much a blind eye as an encouraing wink or nod from the russian government. is there a way to change the russian government's center around these groups or is it a lost cause? >> you're right, the russian governments, there's no evidence they are involved in these attacks. however, we know these criminal groups are operating within their borders. they're very well known to russian law enforcement, so if president putin wanted to do something, if he wanted to shut them down or even just send them
a message, knock it off, you're crossing a line here, he absolutely has the ability to do so. these are not people that are part of his entourage, he doesn't know them personally, so these are individuals very easy to round up and give a clear message to. the question is does he have the will to do so, and right now we have not really pressured him significantly with threats of perhaps major sanctions against the oil and gas sector, sanctions that will really back the russian economy unless he gets these groups to stop. we have not done that, we asked nicely, and so far it clearly hasn't worked. >> dmitri alperovich, thank you very much for talking with us about this tonight. special counsel formal someone like me who is not tech minded
on this stuff, your clarity is very appreciated. thank you. >> thank you.   much more ahead. stay with us. >> thank you   much more ahead. stay with us lt gross. people were afraid i was contagious. i was covered from head to toe. i was afraid toshowmy skin. after i started cosentyx i wasn't covered anymore. four years clear. five years now. i just look and feel better. see me. real people with psoriasis look and feel better with cosentyx. don't use if you're allergic to cosentyx. before starting, get checked for tuberculosis. an increased risk of infections—some serious— and the lowered ability to fight them may occur. tell your doctor about an infection or symptoms, or if you've had a vaccine or plan to. tell your doctor if your crohn's disease symptoms develop or worsen. serious allergic reactions may occur. five years is just crazy. see me. learn more at cosentyx.com. it's another day. and anything could happen. it could be the day you welcome 1,200 guests and all their devices. or it could be the day there's a cyberthreat. get ready for it all with an advanced network
and managed services from comcast business. and get cybersecurity solutions that let you see everything on your network. plus an expert team looking ahead 24/7 to help prevent threats. every day in business is a big day. we'll keep you ready for what's next. comcast business powering possibilities. >> tech: every customer has their own safelite story. this couple was on a camping trip... ...when their windshield got a chip. they drove to safelite for a same-day repair. and with their insurance, it was no cost to them. >> woman: really?
>> tech: that's service you can trust. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ ♪ ♪ i know the best coffee spot in town. i can make a rustic cabin feel modern. i am a guidebook for guests. i can make an indoorsy person, outdoorsy. i give families a home, not just a place to stay. i am a vrbo host. ♪ ♪
(background talking and laughing) ♪ ♪ (child) ...some people just go there immediately... at kaiser permanente, your entire care team is connected. so even a routine appointment can save your life. i am so glad you did this mammogram, so we can detect it early. everything looks great with your eyes, and i see you're due for a mammogram. should we schedule it? oh yeah that'd be great. a leader in the prevention,
early detection   the doctor broke the law and we know he did because he told us so in public in the pages of the "washington post." he said, quote, since then, most of our patients have been too far along in their pregnancies to qualify for abortion care. i tell them that we can offer services only if we cannot see the cardiac activity on an ultrasound, which usually occurs at about six weeks, before most people know they are pregnant. the tension is unbearable as they lie there, waiting to hear their fate. if we detect cardiac activity, we have to refer them out of
state. one of the women i talked with since the law took effect is 42. she has four kids, three in private care. i advised her that she could go to oklahoma. that's a nine-hour drive one way. i explained that we could help with the funding. she told me she couldn't gean if we flew her there. i told her she has a fundamental right to that care. this is by alan braid. he has been doing abortions long since before texas has banned all abortion in the state and set up a system that allows for private citizens to sue anyone who helps a woman in texas get an abortion.
that's the way of enforcing the new ban in texas, have private citizens sue. the last part, the vigilante law in texas, that's part of the reason dr. braid knows he knowingly and openly violated the texas ban a few weeks ago. he did it to try to stress-test the legality of it in court. he writes, quote, i fully understood there could be legal consequences but i want to make sure texas didn't get away with its bid to prevent this blatantly unconstitutional law from being tested. and, of course, tested it will be. after that public admission, dr. braid has now indeed been sued by a private vigilante who is exercising his new established right under this texas law to bring the doctor to court. the man suing dr. braid is not from texas. he is a conflicted felon. he says he's a disbarred lawyer. he's currently serving out his
criminal sentence on house arrest. it's hard to assume, this suit is kind of crazy, but this is the challenge to the texas abortion ban. joining me is joyce. thanks for coming on. >> thank you for having me,rachel. >> we talked in recent weeks how texas advised this law to shield it from public scrutiny. it's been mostly speculation until now whether that would do more than just shield the law from scrutiny, whether the law was actually work to punish abortion providers and people who help women in the state. how do you think this is going to play out? >> so this is a very interesting situation, and i think this statute which is designed to outsmart the justice system may
be too cute by half, because in creating in private vigilante mechanism, it sort of becomes chaos. so we have here by his own admission this disgraced and disbarred former lawyer who is filing this lawsuit, and it opens a huge can of worms, but the biggest can of worms it opens for the state of texas is the possibility that now that the law is actually in effect that there will be a challenge to the law. lawyers call this an as applied constitutional challenge, and this may give opponents of the bill a much more certain path to having the court block the law and join the law in the pendency of the litigation. >> so the vigilante element of the law is no longer hypothetical. it exists, it is a concrete process that is observable, provable and, therefore, testable in court. is that effectively it?
>> i think that's right, and this is vigilanteism perhaps even of a higher caliber than the texas legislature could have imagined. this is just rank vigilanteism. someone from out of state of texas with no connection whatsoever to the doctor or to the patient in this case, and the complaint that he files is really interesting,rachel, because texas law authorize a minimum $10,000 bounty in this situation, but the plaintiff here, oscar stilley, says he would like $100,000 for his lawsuit, but he'll settle for 10,000. >> i will say going through his complaint today was an exercise in sort of tripping without taking drugs. there is a lot of weird elements to it. but if this is going to be the camel's nose that gets the tent opened, there we go. >> be careful what you ask for. >> yes, exactly.
you're going to invite randos around the world to sue as the means with which you're going to enforce this law? welcome to the world of randos in their litigation. joyce, while i have you here, i really hope you do not mind that i do this, and you are totally welcome to shut me down and not engage with me on this at all. since our last commercial break, since we had you in the chair, a little piece of news has broken at "the daily beast" concerning the former president and his niece, mary trump. i am reading this, i know nothing about this other than what is in "the daily beast." i'm going to read the reporting and i'd like to get your response to it, but shut me down if this is an inappropriate thing for me to ask you. the headline here, as you see, is that president trump has filed a lawsuit. donald trump sues "new york times" and his niece over tax story.
former president donald trump has sued the times and his niece, mary trump, saying they did not have his records for the tax story. the paper convinced mary trump to, alleges that the paper convinces mary trump to smuggle records out of her attorney's office and turn them over to the times. the suit demands damages in an amount to be determined at trial but believed to be no less than $100 million. each of those words capitalized. the $100 million from both mary trump and "the times," mary trump giving a comment to the daily beast about this said, quote, i think he is an f-ing loser, the walls are closing in. he is throwing anything against the wall that will stick as is always the case with donald, he'll try and change the subject. that is the total of what has been reported about this thus far. i just want to ask for your initial take on whether this is a real thing or whether this is
a joke. >> yeah, good luck with that as a legal theory. just based on what you've read,rachel, it's a tough theory to argue that mary trump couldn't do what she did in this case. it does sound very much like someone who's desperate to try to turn the tables and certainly the former president has a history of trying to abuse the legal system for his own benefit. so this, loo like another chapter in that same book. >> joyce vance, able to turn on less than a dime to a totally different story that you're learning about live on tv. joyce, thank you very much for being here tonight. thank you, my friend. >> thanks,rachel. . >> all right, we'll be right back. stay with us. we'll be right back stay with us
this is our moment to do right by those who've helped feed us, care for us, and keep us safe during our toughest times. strengthen our economy and build back better with a pathway to citizenship for essential workers like farm workers, temporary protected status holders, and dreamers. over 70% of americans agree -- republicans, democrats, and independents. congress must act now. keep america's promise. build back better with a pathway to citizenship. it's time.
what can i du with less asthma? with dupixent i can du more... yardwork... teamwork... long walks....
that's how you du more, with dupixent, which helps prevent asthma attacks. dupixent is not for sudden breathing problems. it's an add-on-treatment for specific types of moderate-to-severe asthma that can improve lung function for better breathing in as little as two weeks. and can reduce, or even eliminate, oral steroids. and here's something important. dupixent can cause serious allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis. get help right away if you have rash, shortness of breath, chest pain, tingling or numbness in your limbs. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection, and don't change or stop your asthma treatments, including steroids, without talking to your doctor. are you ready to du more with less asthma? just ask your asthma specialist about dupixent. you need an ecolab scientific clean here. and you need it here. and here.
and here. which is why the scientific expertise that helps operating rooms stay clean is now helping the places you go every day too. seek a commitment to clean. look for the ecolab science certified seal.   finally today, some substantive news for people who have had the johnson & johnson
single shot coronavirus vaccine. today the company reported their first data on the prospect of booster shots for people who have had that single shot vaccine. j&j reported results of its study on a second j&j shot administered two months after the first one. they said that second shot increased protection against mild to severe covid to 94%. that's up from the 74% protection after just one shot. those are good numbers. johnson & johnson has submitted those good new numbers to the fda for potential approval of a johnson & johnson booster shot. we shall see what happens. that process is now underway. of course this past friday it was an fda advisory panel that recommended pfizer booster shots to people age 65 and up and people at high risk of severe covid. the fda itself looks like it's going to act on that pfizer recommendation from their advisory panel as soon as tomorrow. the cdc will also start meeting on the issue tomorrow. their advisory panel meets
tomorrow and thursday to talk about the pfizer booster shot specifically. but again, this is all sort of in the hopper now. this time tomorrow we should have further clarity in terms of booster shot recommendations on pfizer. that should tell us where things are going in terms of moderna and we've got the first data in toward a booster shot recommendation on johnson & johnson. it's been a long time and coming, but we're at the point where this is going to go fast now starting tomorrow and over these next couple of days. watch this space. space seriously? one up the power of liquid, one up the toughest stains. any further questions? uh uh! one up the power of liquid with tide pods ultra oxi.
liberty mutual customizes car insurance so you only pay for what you need. how much money can liberty mutual save you? one! two! three! four! five! 72,807! 72,808... dollars. yep... everything hurts. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ ♪ when you hear 'cough cough sneeze sneeze' ♪ it's time for ♪ 'plop plop fizz fizz' ♪ alka seltzer plus cold relief, dissolves quickly... instantly ready to start working. so you can bounce back fast with alka-seltzer plus. tonight... i'll be eating a buffalo chicken panini with extra hot sauce.
tonight... i'll be eating salmon sushi with a japanese jiggly cheesecake. jolly good fire nas... yeah? spare a pound? what? you know, bones, shillings, lolly? lolly? bangers and mash? i'm... i'm sorry? i don't have any money. you don't look broke... my rocket is skint!
all right, that is going to do it for us tonight. thanks for being with us. i'll see you again tomorrow night. now it's time for "the last word" with lawrence o'donnell. >> good evening,racheland i know you reported on this lawsuit that donald trump has filed today. >> i just got it. >> and mary trump in the "new york times," and i'm just looking at mary trump's comment because the article reporting says the times did not immediately respond to a request for comment a