the white house. and it's almost a series of trial runs before he winds up in 1600 pennsylvania avenue. and i think it's fascinating to see it unfold. >> yeah, i agree about those interviews of him when he becomes president of harvard law review, the continuity there, the presence that's already there at that moment is really kind of uncanny. jelani cobb, one of the executive producers of "obama: in pursuit of a more perfect union." thanks for making time. that is "all in" on this tuesday night. therachelmaddowshowstarts right now with nicole wallace. good evening nicole. >> so nice to see you. thanks, chris.   thanks to all of you for joining this hour. i know, i know.rachelis on vacation, but we'll get through this. we start with the dramatic announcement this morning from the attorney general of the state of new york. >> the independent investigation has concluded that governor
andrew cuomo sexually harassed multiple women and in doing so violated federal and state law. specifically, the investigation found that governor andrew cuomo sexually harassed current and former new york state employees by engaging in unwelcome and non-consensual touching and making numerous offensive comments of a suggestive and sexual nature that created a hostile work environment for women. >> the investigation released today by the new york attorney general's office documents allegations against governor cuomo by 11 women. the investigators interviewed 179 witnesses and collected tens of thousands of pieces of evidence to corroborate the allegations. those investigators describe their findings at today's press conference. >> on november 16th, 2020, in the executive mansion, the
governor hugged executive assistant number one and reached under her blouse to grab her breast. the governor also several times inappropriately touched a state trooper assigned to the unit to protect the governor. employees recounted a pattern of similarly offensive comments and conversations, such as the governor repeatedly asking executive assistant number one whether she would cheat on her husband, saying to her, if you were single, the things i would do to you. >> none of them welcomed it, and all of them found it disturbing, humiliating, uncomfortable and inappropriate. and now we find that it was unlawful sex-based harassment. the executive chamber's culture of fear and flirtation, intimidation and intimacy, abuse and affection created a work environment ripe for harassment. >> shortly after the attorney
general's press conference, governor cuomo released a pre-recorded video in response to the investigation. he said that the facts are much different than the way they are portrayed in the report, claiming he never inappropriately touched anyone or made inappropriate sexual advances. but much of his response consisted of this. >> i do kiss people on the forehead. i do kiss people on the cheek. i do kiss people on the hand. i do embrace people. i do hug people. men and women. i do, on occasion, say ciao bella. on occasion i do slip and say, sweetheart or darling or honey. >> the governor also released a written response to the allegations in the attorney general's investigation. of its 85 pages, eight of them are just photos of governor
andrew cuomo hugging and kissing people. another 15 pages are photos of other politicians hugging and kissing people. so far this does not seem to have swayed too many people who have spoken out today, the list of lawmakers calling on cuomo to resign seems to grow by the hour. it includes house speaker nancy pelosi, senate leader chuck schumer and much of the new york delegation. this evening the governors of new jersey, pennsylvania, connecticut and rhode island released a joint statement. it says this, quote, we are appalled at the findings of the independent investigation by the new york attorney general. governor cuomo should resign from office. the leader of the new york assembly says cuomo has lost the confidence of the chamber's democratic majority and cannot remain in office. he also says the assembly will move to conclude its impeachment investigation as quickly as possible once the attorney general turns over the report. just a few hours ago, president
biden joined the chorus, calling for cuomo to step down. >> in march you said that if the investigation confirmed the allegations against governor cuomo, then he should resign. so, will you now call on him to resign, given the investigators said the 11 women were credible? >> i stand by that statement. >> are you now calling on him to resign? >>. >> yes. >> joining our conversation, reports on new york state politics for the "wall street journal." also dounya perry, a former assistant attorney in the southern district of new york. thanks to both of you for joining us. jimmy, you could not be horrified and gobsmacked by the presentation and the detail and the meticulous -- i guess they describe it as corroborating evidence that they had to all the allegations, which were only periodically visible, i think, to the viewing public. what did you make both of the
report that was released and the press conference today? >> well, nicole, i think what was clear was that, as you said, the allegations that have been publicly aired were corroborated with the weight of an investigation that reviewed documents, that subpoenaed witnesses, testimony that was made under oath. what was also striking to me is that there were new details in this report alleging new harassment. mentioned in the top of theshowthat there was a female state trooper who was placed onto the governor's protective detail after he met her at an event some years ago. there was a requirement that was apparently fudged in terms of length of service that allowed her to serve on the detail. and she described the governor touching her belly, described the governor running his finger up her spine. she said that when the governor asked her why she would get married because marriage would just reduce your sex drive and also take away your money and
end in divorce. she made a very fine point on this. the governor never spoke this way or interacted with male members of his security detail in that way. and that was a common theme among all the women who spoke out, that they were treated differently as a result of their gender and that the commentary and the physical interactions all produced what many of them describe as a ceiling of diminishment. to quote, on the list, one of the women who spoke out said she felt when it comes to governor cuomo, she was reduced to, quote, just a skirt. >> dounya, can you explain this to a non-legal audience like myself. while the governor engaged in unlawful sexual harassment, we do not reach in this report a conclusion as to whether the conduct amounts to or should be the subject of criminal prosecution. how is that the case? >> it's a fair question when you
see a report of this magnitude, which is researched, just corroborated in so many ways, which is meticulous, to use your word, and which cites allegation after allegation and that has the type and the quality of proof that we see here, not just witnesses, but we have audio recordings, and there's live stream video, contemporaneous text messages and the like. so, when you see kind of evidence, when you see the harm that it's done, naturally your mind tends to go to a place of, well, how is this not criminal matter? clearly there are going to be -- there should be civil lawsuits, i would imagine. and i don't know that that's going to -- i don't think anything has been filed yet. but certainly there is evidence, and i think the elements would be met for certain at least misdemeanor counts of unwanted
sexual touching and the like. so, the scope of this investigation was not to find or even to refer any matters for criminal prosecution. but of course as we know, they draw up that footnote in the middle of their 165-or-so-page report and we know already that the d.a. in albany county has been looking at this and has said he's taking this seriously. so, we see, you know, certainly there will be some activity on the civil side of the lectern, and it seems there will be investigation on the criminal side as well. >> and dounya, i'm going to play this. this is the comment from the albany county d.a. who spoke exclusively to "nightly news" tonight. but i want to ask you about sharing evidence. all this work doesn't have to be done again by an investigative body, such as the albany d.a., does it? >> absolutely not. i'm sure they will turn over all
of their files, and i'm sure they advised all the witnesses at the time that this could very well be turned over and made public, of course. so, that's not unusual at all. they certainly -- david suarez up in albany county has a road map and he will get boxes of evidence, so to speak, or hard drives, and we'll already have a lot of the work done for him. and we'll just have to make prosecutorial decisions about them. >> and with that insight, let me play david on "nightly news" earlier. >> we are conducting our own separate investigation. i think after today's presentation, which here in albany county, we were witnessing at the same time that the rest of the new yorkers were witnessing, it's pretty clear that we have an obligation here and thus we've reached out to the attorney general's office seeking all of the evidence upon which they uncovered and relied
upon in their report the allegations early on certainly led myself and other prosecutors to believe that criminal activity in fact had taken place. but we will conduct our own independent investigation. it will be done expeditiously, and e we will arrive at those conclusions. for any victim that's out there who is watching this transmission, please reach out to our office, and we will conduct our investigation as discreetly as possible. >> so, jimmy, my question, a criminal investigation, calls to resign from the president of the united states and just about every leading democratic lawmaker and policy maker, a spectacular fall from grace. are people surprised? >> many people have watched governor cuomo for a long time know that he has a very aggressive style, that he
doesn't broker kritism well. one of his advisers says he operates at two speeds, get along and kill. one of the things that was conveyed to me when these allegations really first roared into the public light in february and march was that the governor didn't come from a place of strength, that to the extent he had partisan allies, or rather allies in his own party, they were sort of friendships of convenience. many people describe him as a bully, and many people said to me, when a bully gets knocked down, there's nobody to pick him up. so, in that regard, it wasn't surprising to see support melt away as quickly as it had. what was more remarkable was that after that first crescendo in march, governor cuomo managed to stay in office and essentially buy himself the time between when this investigation was launched and today. democrats who dominate the new york state assembly, which has
the power of impeachment by and large gave governor cuomo this time. this evening and today they are saying that they believe there's a preponderance of support for an impeachment vote. members are undertaking an impeachment inquiry tell me they think it will take several more weeks, that they want to take the evidence brought by attorney general james and combine it with evidence of their own investigation into other areas, including the state's covid-19 policies in nursing homes and the possible misuse of state resources to produce governor cuomo's pandemic memoir, which he expects to be paid $5.1 million. so, many people are saying that a resignation is possible, but clearly there's not anyone piping up in support at this point. >> jimmy, new york state politics reporter for the "wall
street journal" and dounya perry, former assistant attorney in the southern district of new york, thank you so much for taking time tonight. we're grateful.   i want to bring in the conversation, new york state senator alexander baji. i first want to ask you your reaction to what you saw today. >> well, first, nicole, thank you very much for having me on. i think today was a mixture of feelings. i think there was a sense of gratitude to all of the women who bravely spoke out despite the real reputation of retaliation and toxicity that the executive chamber where the governor works has. they did so in such a way that allowed these independent investigators to have findings of not only toxic workplace,
retaliation and violations of state and city law. that was on the one hand. then in response to this report that governor cuomo made, i think the overriding feeling was one of sorrow, not only for the women who stepped forward but really for all women and for all victims and survivors of sexual abuse because what it felt like was happening was the governor was attempting to really gaslight new yorkers as to what the report had said. the report was independent. we'll get to that. it was very thorough. and that was probably one of the most disappointing but really one of the most sad moments of the day today. >> i want to read something that you shared because i think it's all connected, what one woman does in speaking out can often inspire someone who hasn't done so yet. so, i hope you'll understand that's the spirit in which i'm reading this. this is something that you describe in new york magazine in
march about a run-in at a wedding after you had left his office to run for your seat in the state senate. he says, hi, alessandra and pulls me in and kisses me twice. he's holding on to my arm and he looks at my fiance and says, are you jealous. i play a bit of sound from the press conference where they throw all these words in there that aren't often used to describe this toxic matchup of inappropriate intimacy, overfamiliar si, power, aggression. i wonder if you can speak to that. that was given voice today as well. >> absolutely. and i'm happy to talk about that. one of the reasons why i shared that experience with rebecca traycer who wrote that article is because i understand the importance of not only sharing these stories but also taking a stand because you never know who's listening, who's reading, who's watching, who also has
experienced similar behavior. at that time at that wedding, what i recognized was that the governor was clearly trying to assert his power. he was certainly trying to make me feel less powerful. at the time i didn't experience it or his behavior as sexual harassment, but i know that that is also sometimes the point of sexual harassment. sexual harassment is not always about sexuality or sexualizing somebody. it's about power. it's about disarming the victim. and that goes in line very much with the way that his office is run. his office is run as a very toxic environment designed to undermine staff, to destabilize staff, to make you second guess yourself. it's a constant where it feels like a whiplash between praise and also being valueless that leads a lot of people to wonder whether the thing they experienced is the reality of what they experienced because, again, there's a gaslighting that goes on. i think that in light of the report today and given how similar the cases are, all of
the victims were very young. all -- not all. many of them were very young. they were at the beginning of their careers. they were at the beginning of their careers. there was a vulnerability. this demonstrates the governor's abuse of power. it's not only inside the executive chamber. it is outside the executive chamber. it is pervasive. it impacts not just the women that work around him but also the function and integrity of new york state government. >> do you believe he will resign? >> i do not believe that he will resign. so, that is why i continue to call on the assembly because they are the ones with the power to write the articles of impeachment to impeach the governor. what that effectively means is the assembly will draft those articles of impeachment. those articles of impeachment will be delivered to the senate. there will be a trial effectively and there will be a vote that taips take place to remove him from office.
i think at this point in time it is very wise for the governor to heed the calls of not only democrats but many different leaders across our government who are calling for this governor to resign. but i do not believe that he will. he is still fighting. i believe people fight -- even if he's removed from office because this is the essence of who andrew cuomo is. i think at the end of the day the most important thing is that new york has someone in place, has a leader that is strong, that is able to lead this state because i'm sure it's not lost on anybody that we're also still working through covid recovery. so, we have a lot to do, and i think we need somebody at the helm who really respects new yorkers and takes seriously their job in a way that does not cause harm to any other person moving forward. >> new york state senator alessandra biaggi we're really grateful you made time tonight.   when we come back, the fight for voting rights continues. senator amy klobuchar will join us with the latest on what the senate is doing on voting
rights. we'll be right back. voting rights we'll be right back. e. protected this nation. they are the heroes in my family. who are the heroes in yours? i was drowning in student loan debt. then i discovered sofi. lower interest rate. my principal is going down. sofi is a place where you can start to tackle those money goals today. ♪♪ darrell's family uses gain flings now so their laundry smells more amazing than ever. those money goals today. isn't that the dog's towel? hey, me towel su towel. more gain scent plus oxi boost and febreze in every gain fling.
(piano playing) here we go. ♪♪ [john legend's i can see clearly now] ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ make your reunion happen with vrbo. your together awaits.
vrbo [relaxed summer themed music playing] ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ summer is a state of mind, you can visit anytime. savor your summer with lincoln.
team usa is ready for the olympic games... summer is a state of mind, ...and so are mike and eddie!showme the olympics. they easily catch every single event with the award-winning xfinity voice remote.showme bmx racing!showme swimming. track and field. shot put. skateboarding. water polo. climbing! discus. surfing. dressage. dressage? it's horse dancing. magnificent. with the best of the olympics, and everything else you love, it's a way better way to watch! cheer on team usa with xfinity x1. say "showme the olympics in 4k" so you can watch in stunning 4k ultra hd.
our job was to rally the nation, and our job was to rally the nation and bring people to washington, d.c. because just by chance if we came together we would not only get the senate to hear us. we would also get them to act. >> we will get them to act. that was texas state representative trey martinez fisher, today addressing a rally gathered outside the capitol urging congress to pass the for the people bill. martinez-fisher is one of the democratic legislatures from texas who fled to d.c. last month in a bid to deny republicans there the quorum they need to pass the states voting restrictions laws. they were joined by more than
100 state legislatures who travelled from states all across the country to asked the senate to cancel the august recess to focus on voting rights bill. soj in attendance were from places like georgia and arizona, places where voters have passed launched phony audits of election fraud. the legislatures have the same concerns as the texas democrats do. they worry that alone they can't stop the current wave of republican antivoting laws and the false narratives fuelling them in their states. they, too, need help from the democrats in washington. today they received some reinforcements as they were joined on stage by some of the democratic party's biggest stars. >> some people don't want some people to vote. this is the delta variant of jim crow voting laws. and the only vaccination is
federal legislation. >> no recess until we pass the voting rights act for every american. no recess until we stop the gerrymandering in which politicians pick their voters instead of voters picking their politicians. >> we must let everyone understand that freedom is not free, that progress will never remain unless it is struggled for and fought for and worked for and sacrificed for. that is the story of america. >> voting rights are people's rights. voting rights are about our democracy, and the people will overcome. we will pass this bill. >> these senators want a voting rights bill passed this summer, but they also know that all democrats are not yet on the same page. so, how do they overcome this? more importantly how far are they willing to go to do so? joining our conversation, minnesota senior senator, amy klobuchar is here, chair of the rules committee. senator, thank you so much for
making time for us. >> it's an honor. >> it's great. look, we've covered this issue every day in the afternoon, and it's really a privilege to get to talk to you. and i wonder if you could pull the curtain back. the democratic legislators feel optimism. they feel they've conveyed to all of you they don't need the whole package. they just need something. is that -- has that focused efforts in the senate? >> yes. and your first speaker you featured was trey, who i consider a friend from texas. those legislatures and really legislatures from across the country have come to washington just as they did in the 1960s asking for salvation. they can't get this done in their states because as reverend warnock pointed out in the clip you featured, some people don't want some people to vote. and that is really, really put in stark focus in georgia where their laws literally say the runoff period where warnock and ossoff won and registered 70,000 people, they changed the law
just a few months ago and said you can't register people. you can't vote on weekends during the runoff, and you can't give water from non-partisan volunteers to people who have stood in line for five hours, six hours like the people we met when we were down there for a field hearing. what the for the people does and your question is can we focus it on what really matters in these states to get at all of these heinous things that are going on to stop people from voting? my answer is yes. and that is what we're doing right now with senator manchin. and let me be very clear, he has publicly said that he supports the disclose act to focus on the dark money in our politics, the gerrymandering, and then also what i am working on right now is to make sure that all of the voting rights from mail-in balloting to early registration to making sure that what happened in georgia, which will be a new part of our bill, that you can't have state
legislatures usurping the power of local election officials. those are the things we're talking about, and we are very close to getting aan agreement on a final bill. zbln agreement among whom. from the outside -- and please correct me if i have this wrong -- it looks like you're still corralling democrats and it looks like there's no appetite for doing away with the filibuster. >> first of all, corralling democrats is never easy. we have a broad party and we have a group that's working on this from senator berkeley, senator padilla, senator schumer, and senator angus king who serves on the rules committee with me and many others. what we're doing is we're putting together legislation, and we've already voted to proceed. it was the republicans that stopped us. once we get that legislative package, then we will deal with first of all can we get any republican support? i honestly don't think we can.
one must always try. and the second thing is what can we do with our procedural rules in the senate to stop this evil? and there are things, senator manchin has indicated a willingness to look at a standing filibuster. i personally think i would abolish the filibuster myself. i think it's being used to stop all kinds of things we need to get done. there is republican support. we can't get it done because of filibuster. there is republican support on climate change. 60 votes. those things were set up in another time in another place and it has always changed over time and it is time to change it again. and those are the discussions we need to have. but my obvious focus right now is getting an agreement that will make a difference, not some small ball thing that won't help but will actually make a difference for these kinds of voter suppression efforts that are going on across the country. >> i know you see this the same
way the folks on the front line see this. are you confident that all of your colleagues in the senate see it that way? >> yes. they have heard from reverend senator warnock, as i love to call him, who when i was down in georgia spoke to his congregation and said vote is really a prayer for a better world, for a better america. they have heard from people like jon tester, who's a strong supporter of the bill and campaign finance reform because he's seen the changes they've made in montana, which once had much better election laws, or people like tammy baldwin in wisconsin, who saw her own voters standing in line in makeshift masks in garbage bags in the rain in the middle of a pandemic just to exercise their right to vote. and so i think that makes a difference. and so that's the kind of discussions we're having. i know that we will have unity on a bill. and if i don't, i'll come on the
show and say, sorry, i failed. but i know we will, nicole. i know we will. but from there we have to figure out the procedure and how we get this done. and i just refuse as so many people in the past in american politics whether it is civil rights or other efforts that have advanced our country, it seemed impossible at the moment. but then we found a way to get to the right place. and that's where we need to get because we simply can't deny people the right to vote and tell them they can't get water in line and tell them that, oh, no, you can vote on the weekend sometimes but you can't vote on the weekends. and oh, by the way, people of georgia -- and they did this -- you need to put your birthday on the inner envelope. your birthday. not the day you're casting the ballot, your birthday, which they know will lead to nothing but confusion. this is wrong. and this is, i believe, against the election laws. and i believe the vast majority of americans would agree that no
matter who wins, democrat or republican. and by the way, we have strong support for this. both parties that we have to have election laws that make it so it is safe for people to vote whether they're in the middle of a pandemic or not, they can vote how they want, they can cast their ballot how they want. that is the freedom of america. that is our democracy. >> minnesota senator amy klobuchar, it is a real pleasure to get to talk to you about this issue. i'm really grateful that you had time to come on tonight. thank you so much. >> thank you, nicole. see you soon.   this friday will mark seven months since the deadly attack on the united states capitol. many police officers are still reeling from the events of that day. what is being done to help them and to further protect our capitol? we'll have much more on that story when we come back. on that story when we come back. you oughta customize your car insurance with liberty mutual, so you only pay for what you need. oh um, doug can we talk about something other than work, it's the weekend.
yeah, yeah. [ squawk ] hot dog or... chicken? [ squawk ] only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ this is the greatest idea you'll ever hear. okay, it's an app that compares hundreds of travel sites for hotels and cars and vacation rentals like kayak does for flights. so it's kayak. yeah, like kayak. why don't you just call it kayak. i'm calling it... canoe. compare hundreds of travel sites for thousands of trips. kayak. search one and done. for people living with h-i-v, keep being you. and ask your doctor about biktarvy. biktarvy is a complete, one-pill, once-a-day treatment used for h-i-v in certain adults. it's not a cure, but with one small pill,
biktarvy fights h-i-v to help you get to and stay undetectable. that's when the amount of virus is so low it cannot be measured by a lab test. research shows people who take h-i-v treatment every day and get to and stay undetectable can no longer transmit h-i-v through sex. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects include a buildup of lactic acid and liver problems. do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your doctor about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b, do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your doctor. common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache. if you're living with hiv, keep loving who you are. and ask your doctor if biktarvy is right for you. - i'm norm. if you're - i'm szasz.hiv, keep loving who you are. [norm] and we live in columbia, missouri. we do consulting, but we also write. [szasz] we take care of ourselves constantly; it's important. we walk three to five times a week, a couple miles at a time.
- we've both been taking prevagen for a little more than 11 years now. after about 30 days of taking it, we noticed clarity that we didn't notice before. - it's still helping me. i still notice a difference. prevagen. healthier brain. better life.
emergency planning for kids. we can't predict when an emergency will happen. so that's why it's important to make a plan with your parents. here are a few tips to stay safe. know how to get in touch with your family. write down phone numbers for your parents, siblings and neighbors. pick a place to meet your family if you are not together and can't go home. remind your parents to pack an emergency supply kit. making a plan might feel like homework, but it will help you and your family stay safe during an emergency. .   it was a week ago today that
capitol police officer harry dunn made this impassioned plea before the house select committee investigating the january 6th riot. >> i want to take this moment to speak to my fellow officers about the emotions they're continuing to experience from the events of january 6th. there's absolutely nothing wrong with seeking professional counseling. what we went through that day traumatic. if you're hurting, take advantage of the services available to us. i also ask you review the services available to us and consider whether they are sufficient enough to meet our needs. >> when officer dunn pleaded with fellow off thissers to seek out professional mental support if they needed it, we know that two fellow officers had died by suicide. yesterday, two more of mr. dunn's fellow officers had
their deaths ruled suicide. president trump supporters continue to stoke conspiracy theories about that day. and as we continue to learn new details about the former president's efforts to overturn the election. abc news is reporting just over a week before the insurrection, one of president trump's doj officials tried to get the acting attorney general to sign off on a letter urging georgia's governor to investigate and potentially overturn joe biden's victory in that state. top justice officials refused to sign off on the request, but abc news has obtained emails detailing the plot. every day it becomes clear that to fully understand what happened on january 6th, we have to look beyond the events of that day. the riot did not materialize out of thin air. its impact on our country and its impact on our first
responders continues to raise serious questions that must be answered. joining our conversation, pete aguilar who serves on the committee, and frank figliuzzi, msnbc contributor. frank, i'm going to start with you because i want to try to understand what people maybe outside law enforcement can't see about the trauma that the officers that responded to january 6th must still be enduring. >> what we're still doing is we're still learning of the casualties of what happened at the capitol. these officers, four of them now, ruled death by suicide, are casualties of a battle that took place in the course of defending our democracy. the culture of law enforcement is a closed culture. it's a culture in which seeking help may be seen as a sign of weakness. but it's clear at least to me that when you have four officers
from two different departments, washington metropolitan police and the capitol police, who are experiencing death by suicide, then one commonality is their battle for us, the battle for democracy on january 6th. then that seems to be linked to their demise. and those two departments have got to collaborate on an in depth study of what happened and why but most importantly, most imminently, they must offer very professional experienced help, even mandated if necessary. because while we don't keep accurate statistics on officer suicides in this country, the available statistics we have seem to indicate that suicide may be the number one cause of death for police in this country. >> congressman, you don't have to be an expert to understand that trauma is exacerbated when people deny both the trauma and
the traumatic event itself. is there nothing of a break through that can be reached with your republican colleagues to at least honor the sacrifices made by the men and women who protected all of you that day? >> well, first our thoughts and our prayers go out to these officers' families and their colleagues. and as officer dunn noted, his plea for his colleagues to seek the help that they need. you know, we're going to continue to offer the resources we can. the best way to honor our law enforcement heroes who were that last line of defense on democracy on january 6th is to get to the bottom of what happened leading up to january 6th and the role that the big lie played. but also we passed a supplemental appropriation bill, a fancy term for more resources for the capitol police and the national guard. but making sure we put those
resources into wellness for these officers. those are the types of things we can do if we really want to honor their commitment that day. >> frank, what would you say is the most important thing to make sure that these first responders understand that the vast majority of americans do, as you write today, have their back? >> it's important for them to get up out of the rabbit hole that law enforcement officers often find themselves in. it's often an us versus them mentality. you only speak to each other. you only get your news from a certain source, and boy, doesn't that describe many americans today. they need to get their heads up and realize that the vast majority of america is with them because they were with us and that we are rooting for their success. we want the changes to take place at the capitol. we recognize the incredible security review done by retired
general honore. we recognize there is a sitting select committee to get to the truth, get to the bottom of this. that's the majority of america. that's what they need to know. that's what they're protecting is truth and freedom and justice. >> congressman, you talked about getting to the truth of what was behind the attack. it seems increasingly clear that will include subpoenas for some of your republican colleagues in the house. when are those expected to go out? >> well, i'll let the chairman speak for the timing of this, but what he has said and what we have said very clearly is that no one is above a subpoena. and we will get to the truth. and we will use every tool available to compel folks to help us get to the truth. but as you mentioned, that isn't just what happened on january 6th. it's everything that led up to this. how is this funded? how was this organized? what role did these groups play
in trying to overtake our democracy, trying to overrun the capitol. if we trully want to honor those law enforcement professionals, we look to them. they told us directly last week seven days ago, they told us to get to justice and accountability. that's exactly what this select committee will do in a non-partisan way with democrats and republicans around that table. >> i believe the exact quote, their directive to you was that when there's a hitman, you send the hitman to jail but then you go and find the person who hired and paid for the hitman. that was their request of all of you. thank you both so much for joining us tonight and being part of our coverage.   it is no credit that the delta variant is spreading in the united states. can we stop the spread? one major city just took a step designed to encourage more people to get vaccinated. we'll have more on that breaking news after the break. we'll have more on that breaking
news after the break front desk. yes, hello... i'm so... please hold. ♪ those days are done. ♪ i got you. ♪ all by yourself. ♪ go with us and find millions of flexible options. all in our app. expedia. it matters who you travel with. >> woman: what's my safelite story? i see inspiration right through my glass. so when my windshield cracked, i chose safelite. they replaced the glass and recalibrated my safety system. that's service i can trust. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
(judith) in this market, you'll find fisher investments is different than other money managers. (other money manager) different how? don't you just ride the wave?
(judith) no - we actively manage client portfolios based on our forward-looking views of the market. (other money manager) but you still sell investments that generate high commissions, right? (judith) no, we don't sell commission products. we're a fiduciary, obligated to act in our client's best interest. (other money manager) so when do you make more money? only when your clients make more money? (judith) yep, we do better when our clients do better. at fisher investments we're clearly different. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ hey google, turn up the heat. ♪ ♪ ♪
age is just a number. and mine's unlisted. try boost® high protein with 20 grams of protein for muscle health. versus 16 grams in ensure high protein. boost® high protein also has key nutrients for immune support. boost® high protein. super emma just about sleeps in her cape. but when we realized she was battling sensitive skin, boost® high protein also has key nutrients we switched to tide hygienic clean free. it's gentle on her skin, and out cleans our old free detergent. tide hygienic clean free. hypoallergenic and safe for sensitive skin. [ heavy breathing ] allergies with nasal congestion overwhelming you? breathe more freely with powerful claritin-d. claritin-d improves nasal airflow two times more than the leading allergy spray at hour one. [ deep inhale ] claritin-d. get more airflow.
we're doing everything we can to get more people vaccinated and we're seeing real results. in the past two weeks we've seen a 55% increase in the average number of new people getting vaccinated every day. in the last seven days alone, nearly their first shot. that's the highest seven-day total in a month. importantly, over the past two weeks the eight states with the highest current case rates have seen a doubling of people newly vaccinated each day. the message is getting through apparently. >> this afternoon president biden updating the nation on the fight against the coronavirus, both here at home and abroad. as we cross an important vaccination milestone. as of today, more than 70% of the american adult population has received at least one shot of the coronavirus vaccine. obviously.
>> time is of the essence. for that reason a growing number of private sector businesses and offices have recently mandated vaccines for all their employees as well as their customers. in new york city, they became the first city in the country to require proof of at least one shot of the vaccine to dine indoors or go to the gym or attend a performance. question now is will it work to keep cases down and will other cities and states follow suit. joining us is dr. vin gupta, faculty member of the at the institute for health metrics and evaluation at the university of washington. it feels like it's the point in the pandemic we should celebrate good news. there has been so much to be alarmed by and the fact that these harrowing accounts coming out of mostly southern states either had an impact or they were seeing things up close and personal that they couldn't process, maybe from the nation's capitol, and vaccine and vaccine
participation is way up. >> you bet, nicole. good evening. today was a consequential day. we cannot minimize it. number one, what you said, new york city mandating proof of vaccine for restaurants. this will be a paradigm local sis and jurisdictions will emulate. this is a smart move. i have been waiting for this day for the last two months since the cdc had their revised masking guidance in may. number two, big, big move with tyson. tyson foods. moving their essential front line blue collar staff, their hourly paid staff towards mandating the vaccine. if they don't get the vaccine, they don't have a job. that's a big consequential move. up until now it's been corporations that have allowed the corporate employees to make that decision. get the vaccine or you can stay home. this is a first move for a blue collar organization. you are going to see a lot of organizations who fastly follow.
lastly, the fda acknowledgment that they are going to be moving towards approval of the pfizerbein tech vaccine by labor day weekend. a lot of domino's will fall including, hopefully, department of transportation will consider mandating proof of vaccine for travel. young people want to travel. if you have toshowproof of vaccine to travel, that will increase rates significantly in addition to schools, colleges, universities. if we mandate polio for schools, we should be able to do the same for the covid-19 vaccine. many tomorrow knows are going fall. it's going to increase rates. >> i want to just ask you to sort of expand on that because people, i know viewers atrachel's program, viewers of this network, have a lot of trust and faith in the science and the emergency use is something we cover very closely. it is a very careful and meticulous approval process. but among the vaccine hesitant, that final approval is a huge deal. could you expand on that a little bit?
>> of course. you know, there is in notion this has been a rushed process. it's been anything other than that. what has been consolidated -- i get this question all the time. why did it take 12 months when it normally takes five to ten years? that's on the top of mind of many people. it's been the non-science parts of the vaccine development waiting for money, waiting for people to enroll in the studies, waiting for the nih to say you can go to the next phase. all that bureaucratic non-scientific components have been sol sol dated as part of operation warp speed. we need to take short. the science hasn't cut corners i it's the bureaucracy of it. that's why it takes five years. to emphasize to all of your viewers, kaiser family foundation came out with an important. less than 1% of cases detected across the country are vaccine breakthrough cases.
in some cases less than 0.01%, places like connecticut all vaccine breakthrough cases. 95% of those hospitalized in the united states, we have 6,000 new hospitalizations every seven days for covid-19, 95% of those are unvaccinated people. these vaccines work. and we need to make that message really clear that you only need two shots of the vaccine to be kept out hospital, especially if you are otherwise healthy. >> dr. vin gupta, critical care pulmonologist, faculty member at the institute for health metrics and university of washington, constantly making since of these headlines for us. thank you so much for your time tonight. we are grateful. >> thank you.   a quick break for us. we'll be right back. eak for us we'll be right back. ♪ rock the boat don't tip the boat over ♪ here we go. ♪ don't rock the boat, baby rock the boat ♪ see disney's jungle cruise. it's time to rock the boat, america.
see disney's jungle cruise. you need an ecolab scientific clean here. and you need it here. and here. and here. which is why the scientific expertise that helps operating rooms stay clean is now helping the places you go every day too. seek a commitment to clean. look for the ecolab science certified seal.
feel the clarity of non-drowsy claritin. and 24-hour relief from symptoms caused by over 200 indoor and outdoor allergens. try claritin cool mint chewabls for powerful allergy relief plus a cooling sensation. live claritin clear. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
show me the olympics. [ "bugler's dream" playing ] ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
♪ ♪ .   it is election night in ohio and polls have closed in two elections that could be marriage bellwethers for the future of america's two major place. a battle between the progressive wing of the democratic party and the establishment. former state senator nina turner is running for that seat with the backing of progressives. senator bernie sanders and congressman ocasio-cortez. turner is facing off against cuyahoga county counselor shontell brown who received endorsement from power brokers
like hillary clinton and jim clyburn. brown is winning that race by 6.5 points with more of half precincts reporting there. in the conservative 15th district republicans facing a test of donald trump's influence. a few minutes ago "the associated press" declared the trump-backed coal lobbyist mike carey the winner in ohio's 15th congressional district. msnbc will continue to follow tonight's election results as they unfold.   that's it for us tonight. see you again tomorrow. i will see you tomorrow morning at 4:00 p.m. eastern. time for "the last word with lawrence o'donnell". >> thank you very much for that ohio report because that is now everything i know about the ohio house races tonight. there is so much news pouring down on us that i have not been able to get to that one tonight. so you have just taught me everything