part of what is going on is the younger generation grew up in an era of climate emergency, personal debt crises here and of watching markets fail again and again. that's moved them to the left and changed the politics of the democratic party. >> ezra klein, that's a great column. thank you for making time tonight. that is "all in" on this friday night. "rachelmaddowshow" starts right now. good evening,rachel. >> chris hayes, would you be willing right now on television to reenact in a small way the dance you did on instagram yesterday upon getting your second shot? go on, do it. go on, do it. >> i can't. first of all, i don't dance on command. i only dance -- i only dance when being vaccinated, at least on tv. and third of all, you can actually -- we played the clip on my tvshow. you can find it. it's out there on the internet.
>> it was very, very happy making. it was fantastic. and you don't dad dance at all. you totally normally dance. >> i can move a little bit. >> i only dance in chairs and not even when i'm vaccinated. but i know exactly the feeling. congratulations my friend. it's great to see you. >> thank you.   all right. and while we're on the subject. did i get it straight? i got my shot. i did. i'm so excited. i got the johnson & johnson one-shot vaccine. can i just tell you about it for a second? i went on my own so i didn't have anybody take a picture of me, let alone me dancing like chris did when i was getting the shot. i didn't. i don't think i would have liked to have seen me -- a picture of me getting the shot anyway because i am afraid of needles so it would make me throw up if i saw a picture of myself getting an injection.
but i did take this photo of myself right after i got the shot, right as i sat down in the waiting area. i know this is a terrible photo. i'm wearing my battered west point baseball cap. i forgot i had put a right red binder clip for safekeeping. that's on the brim. i'm such a dork. this will be forever my vaccine photo. but full notice i look a little crazy in the photo even beyond just the weird hat, and it is because i was sitting there bawling my eyes out from relief and gratitude from getting the shot. i kept having to sneak a handkerchief under my mask so i wouldn't totally soak it while i sat there crying. as far side effects, i feel fine. my arm hurt a little bit right after and i felt a little woozy. i know there have been reports in the past few days about a few people in a few different states
feeling bad after they got a johnson & johnson shot. that may be. i'm fine. honestly my wooziness, i'm lightheadedness might have been because i was so emotional about getting it done. also because i am scared of needles and i get woozy whenever i see them. i'm not going to go on about this forever but i do want to say a thing about the vaccine. i feel like there is a sort of discourse in the american media, in the normal media, not the conservative media, which really is still mired in all sorts of disinformation and nonsense about covid, including about covid vaccines. but in the rest of the media, in left and center and everything but hard right crazy media, i feel like there has been a lot of patronizing, snobby discussion about people who don't really want to get the vaccine. i will just tell you i know a lot of people in my personal life, people in my marching order, my peers, people i love and respect and have a lot in common with who feel a little reluctant to get the vaccine.
in addition to that, lots of people in my life are supereager to get it and have been scrambling for an appointment and couldn't wait to do it. but along side that, i also know a lot of people who are just hoping that nobody will notice that they haven't gone because they're still mulling it over, they're kind of dragging their feet about it. they're kind of dreading it. i just want to say that is not anything to be ashamed of. feeling that way, whatever you're reading in the immediate year hearing in the media, feeling that way is not necessarily born of you having some rank ignorance or because you've been drafted into some conspiratorial antivaccine movement, although there is one in this country. for me, i am a person who is legitimately afraid of needles. i have passed out and fallen out of my chair from getting injections. i absolutely hate it. i get that part of it. incidentally i am also generally a stay away from the doctor for everything person. i don't take any medication that
i don't absolutely have to and i try to limit any amount of time i have to take anything. also i had had -- i hope this isn't too personal. but i had a specific worry about the vaccine. i -- about four years ago -- had a really bad allergic reaction to a shot that i got. it wasn't a vaccine. i had a back injury and had a injection. it went wrong and i had a scare with is that. i got the fda fact sheet and checked the ingredients and knew for sure there was no overlap between the components of the injection to which i had the bad reaction. and what's in all of the vaccines. i knew there was no overlap. still, i can't it made me worry. look, on that point, in this terrible photograph that i took, you can see that's my shirt. you can see they put a second sticker on me. i have the upside vaccination sticker on the should and q 30
minutes. that is on me because that means i answered yes when they asked whether i had an allergic reaction to a shot. i had. they put me through additional medical screening and the other sticker on me. indicating i had to stay 30 minutes instead of 15 minutes in the observation period. they kept an eye on me twice the usual time. sitting there crying like i was reading old yeller over and over again. that's how it went. i had legitimate fears. i felt the fear and i did it anyway. so just listen, if you are like me, if you have been feeling resistant or dragging your feet about whether or not to get the vaccine. i get it. you are not a jerk or fool or
some conspiracy theorist. we have reasons to feel reluctant or scared or hope it will blow over and we won't have to get shot. i'm with you. here's the thing i have totally clarity about now having done it. it's not for you. you are not doing this for yourself. if you are at all like me, your own health and risk is not a big rational driver of all of your actions. maybe you feel fatalistic if i get covid i get it. maybe you feel like your odds are good that you won't get a bad case. fair enough. if that's how you feel about your own covid risk and you are weighing that distant not that concerning risk to yourself. against all the very present ways you feel bad and worried about the vaccine. you are maybe thinking the vaccine feels like the more present danger. the more dangerous worry.
i get it. i understand that. you are not getting the vaccine for you. even if you don't care that much if you are going to get covid. i know you should care, a lot of us don't. we aren't wired that way. we're risk tolerant. or a risk you are willing to take. and what you do care about, what will move you, what tips the scales in favor of you going and getting that shot that you don't want is this, you really do not want to be the person who gets it and spreads it to other people. regardless of the risk getting it yourself. god forbid if you don't get vaccinated because of whatever. i don't care.
i understand. it's reasonable stuff. if you don't get vaccinated and you get covid and unknowingly spread it to other people who you know and encounter. and they get sick or die from it. those people give it it family members and mom or dad dies. because of you. because you wouldn't get vaccinated. god forbid. could you live with yourself? if you had the choice to get vaccinated and decide i'm scared and that decision cost somebody else their life because they got from you. it's not for you. if you get vaccinated your risk of getting really sick or dying from covid yourself drops to zero. that's true with all vaccines. what's important to me and i'm wired is if you get vaccinated your chance of spreading the infection to somebody else drops off a cliff. you have saved yourself. more importantly you have saved
everybody else. you are like 90% less likely to get infected and transmit tho anybody else. get your vaccine. so you don't kill anybody with covid. it will protect you. it's not for you. it's so you don't kill other people. and don't spread it to other people. how could you live with yourself if you had done that? are you scared of getting the shot? me too. is it more scary na you will be a vector. spreading a fatal virus to those around you. if you don't get that shot. get it. maybe you have told yourself you're playing it safe. it's a new vaccine. 114 million americans nearly half the adult population in the country had a vaccine shot already. 114 million have had it.
lt number of people dying from the shot is zero. the number of people died from covid is approaching 560,000. if you have been telling yourself this story you're playing it safe. you're not getting the vaccine. it's a new thing. you're playing it safe. think about it. if there are two paths and one path there are zero deaths and the other path is more than half a million deaths, which one is the safer path? it is okay to feel reluctant or scared and not want to get it. that's nothing to be ashamed of. feel the fear and do it anyway. get it. because most of all it is not for you. it's to keep you from getting it and spreading it. seriously. if i can get it, and like have such an emotional release from the fear and anxiety and
gratitude about it. i can cry like a bib by in front of other people. if i can do it, you can do it. i don't recommend this angle for a selfie. or recommend wearing a hat with a binder clip on the brim. you can do it. if i can do it, you can do it. so. i will not talk of this again. there you have it. we'll be talking later on this hour about whether they might surging more vaccines in to places that are having tons of new cases. the case of michigan they have a really big spike in cases a big spike in hospitalization. the fear is if you could get more people vaccinated more quickly you could reduce the spread. reducing the number of people who ask get it and spread it. we have expert advice later on this hour. why it's a controversy with the governor of michigan asking for more vaccine. the white house saying we'll send more vaccinators and
accelerate the ability to distribute it. but not more vaccine. the talk about that is a live controversy. later on in the hour. and a report from minnesota and the trial of the officer accused of killing george floyd. dramatic medical testimony today. that put to rest the contention that george floyd died because of any cause other than having the knee on his neck. that was dramatic. very moving testimony today. we'll have more on that coming up. this weekend in politics one thing to watch for the republican party this weekend is decamping to donald trumps house. to the place where he lives. holding the big republican national committee donor retreat in south florida. they made the decision they would at this retreat leave the site of the retreat and instead pay more than $100,000 of the republican party money to former president trump. they will pay him. to hold a gala dinner at his
private club tomorrow night. think about that. he's like threatening to sue them if they don't stop using his name. and the response is pay him over $100,000 to go have dinner at his house and beg him to grace them with their presence. the dignity the self-respect. it's overwhelming. meanwhile the person who they are falling all over themselves to continue to associate themselves with. what's going on in his life? "washington post" is reporting a grand jury subpoena has been executed in new york for financial records related to the family of allen weiss el burg. the top financial adviser at the trump organization and for mr. trumps father before that. the post reports investigators seem to be honing in on unexplained or ir rational
compensation and attendant potential tax evasion. which they appear to be tracing through the family financial records. they have obtained through subpoena. for example i'm not totally clear on what this means. the "washington post" reports tonight that for whatever reason something strange seems to have been happening around money and ice rink. in new york city. operated by the trump organization. bottom line is that the president's business the trump organization appears to have paid a king's ransom to his son. whose job was managing this ice skating rink. for the trump organization. this is not like an olympic facility. it's a recreation nak rink open six months out of the year. a cash only business. it's not like a huge entity. it's a seasonal cash only ice rink in a park.
for some reason the manager of the ice rink for that job appears to have been paid $200,000 a year. plus a $40,000 cash bonus. yearly. plus possibly at least one possibly two rent free participant apartments on central park south and leased luxury suv at no cost and private school tuition for both kids. $50,000 a kid per year. and sleep away costs and more. all as compensation for him managing an ice rink in a park. that is only open half the year and takes cash. like i said, i'm not sure what that means but everybody taxes in order. declare all compensation? there have been multiple reports from news organizations that the prosecutors who are
investigating the president and his business maybe trying to essentially flip the president's chief financial officer. the trump organization top financial executive. to testify. about what he knows about what's being investigated at the president's business. this obviously could be part of that pressure. former president trump reportedly hired a new criminal defense lawyer to represent him in this case. that is pursued against him and his business. interestingly the lawyer is 84 years old. he's very experienced. he's reportedly a former law partner of one of the lawyers that the prosecutors office brought in as a special counsel. to helm this investigation of the president. so maybe they think he knows how the prosecutor ticks and unwind him. i don't know. he's 84. one of the other criminal defense lawyers the president former hired will have to divide his time between the trump
defense in the criminal case in new york and reported to be this live criminal federal investigation into protrump florida republican congressman matt gaetz. they will both apparently be using mark. as their defense counsel in the two big criminal cases they are reportedly facing. mr. gaetz hired him as well as a second attorney. who is most famous in for represented a number of high profile sex crime defendants recently. congressman gaetz has lost a second senior staffer from his congressional office. first hiskmub communication director. and legislative director quit. the ethics committee in congress opened an investigation into gaetz with a statement. the committee is aware of public allegations that represented matt gaetz may have engaged in
sexual misconduct. or drug use. shared inappropriate videos on the house floor. converted campaign funds to improper use. that's the description of what they're looking into. that will be a bipartisan inquiry in the house ethics committee. the office put out a statement saying allegations against him that are investigated by the committee are all false. never the less the circle of people involved in the gaetz scandal is becoming both more clear and alsoseemingly precurious. awaiting trial on 33 federal counts including a charge of child sex trafficking. a elected official in florida. the tax collect r. the investigation into congressman gaetz reportedly
involves the same under age girl cited in the child sex trafficking charges. today he was back in court in florida. entering a not guilty plea on the third superseding indictment that federal prosecutors filed against him. an initial indictment and three more since then. each adding additional felony federal charges. this latest which he pled not guilty. charges of him embezzling $400,000 from the tax collectors office and bribing a federal official to help him try to committee fraud to steal covid relief funds. that's nice.


may, next month to come to terms in a plea agreement and any ple agreement in the case would have to include him telling knows that what he
may be relevant to any ongoing sexual child trafficking case, involving a citying congressman. congressman matt gaetz. the new york times is reporting that itpo expanded to include t congressman's reported discussions about a sham fake candidate. who was put up in a florida state senate race last year, in an effort, apparently to divert votes from the democratic candidate and there by help the republican. congressmand gates denies any involvement in this scheme. but it should be noted that there were a s number of these last year. the same type of scheme, where a republican was runninge, againsa democrat r and then, another candidate appeared on the ballot, to apparently try to divert votes from the democrat. that same scheme recurred at least three different times in different florida state senate races last eryear. when thece florida republican party was trying to hold on to the state senate. and at least three different florida senate races l last yea candidates appeared on the ballot, who nobody knew in
politics who did not do campaigning. but, mysteriously, hundreds of thousands ofte dollars were spe on their behalf on really slick mailers thaton went out to flora voters promoting these no name candidates. and in all three of the cases. the republican senate candidate won. with more or less help from the progressive vote being split between thee real democrat tha was actually running and the randos who were advertised as progressives on the ballot. the orlando sentinel reported that the candidate that gaetz wanted put on the ballot in a senatee race where one of his friends was running for a republican senate seat. the, what appears to be the sham candidate, gaetz allegedly discussed getting on the ballot is an unemployed former substitute teacher from seminole county, florida.
she did not campaign at all in the race she wasal named a candidate. record showed that sheed had fo donors to her campaign. the orlando sentinel said they tracked down one of s them yesterday and he said he never heard of that woman, let alone donated money to her. never the less, there's a hundrs ofe' dollars of slick political flyers sent on her behalf. that showed a stock photo of a african-american woman, even though the sham candidate happens to be a white woman. the woman did attract a few thousand vote ns the race. theot democrat lost, and matt gaetz's friend, won. now the woman has picked up stakes andck moved to sweden according to the orlando sentinel. one of the otherdo race ns florida, where a sham candidate was allegedly paid to take a
place on the ballot to help the republican candidate win, has resulted in felony indictments. with the young lady that was represented on a flyer as a black woman andly was not a bla woman, and then went to sweden after earning a few thousand votes in thatfe race, that has resulted thus far in no charges that anybody knows of but it's part of the matt gaetz federal investigation asth well. the republican lobbyist in florida who congressman gaetz who talkedfl to about the sham candidate who fled to sweden has been let go from his pro trump republican lobbying firm. hey, nationalrm republican part let's all pile in to mar-a-lago this weekend. he no m longer has the miles an hour to pardon anybody, right? lot of news to get to, stay with us.
that means... best burger ever. intuit quickbooks helps small businesses be more successful with payments, payroll, and banking.
♪ na na na na ♪ na na na na... ♪ hey hey hey. ♪ goodbye. ♪ na na na na... ♪ hey hey hey. ♪ goodbye. ♪ na na na na ♪ na na na na... the world's first six-function multipro tailgate. available on the gmc sierra. [sfx: psst psst] thallergies don't have to beon scary.ltipro tailgate. spraying flonase daily stops your body from overreacting to allergens all season long. psst! psst! all good
♪♪ (car horn) ♪♪ turn today's dreams into tomorrow's trips... with millions of flexible booking options. all in one place. expedia.

today was day 10 of the trial of the former minneapolis police officer who is charged with the murder of george floyd, today the jury heard key testimony of how and why mr. floyd died, the defense in the case argued that it was not asphyxia, they tried to argue that is not ultimately what killed mr. floyd, they suggested instead, that it may have been george floyd's pre-existing drug condition, that killed him in the interaction with minneapolis police officers. prosecutors took that head on and began their case with a pathologyist lyndsay thomas. and explained it in a way that it could not be more clear. >> have you formed an opinion on the mechanism of death.
>> yes. >> can you tell us what that is? >> in this case, the prime mechanism of death is asphyxia or low oxygen. good -- >> did you rule out -- >> yes, there's no indication that he would have died that night except for the interaction with law enforcement. >> that testimony followed compelling testimony from yesterday, a dr. martin tobin to according to one reporter had the jury on the edge of their seats with his harrowing description of how mr. floyd died. >> mr. floyd died from a low level of oxygen and this caused damage to his brain that we see and it also caused a p.e.a that
caused his heart to stop. on the right image, you see his knuckle against the tire. and to most people this does not look like terribly significant. but to a physiologist, it's extraordinarily significant. it tells you that he has used up his resources and now he is literally trying to breathe with his fingers and knuckles. when he last take a breath, the knee he remains on the neck for another 3:27.   that testimony from the expertain witness withes yesterday and this morning, was all leading up to highly anticipated testimony from the county medical examiner who performed the autopsy on george floyd after his death. the reason this testimony was highly anticipated was that, when the medical examiner did his autopsy report, he didn't list asphyxia, he does cite the
medical conditions and drug use as contributing causes. the defense has hinged their case on this. they made a big deal about this in the beginning of the trial in opening statements, suggesting that it will be the crux of the case. that officer chauvin is not the reason that george floyd died. today that medical examiner was on the stand and he made it perfectly clear that he believes in his professional opinion that the reason george floyd died that day is because of what officer derek chauvin did to him. >> in my opinion, the law enforcement subdal restraint was more than he could take with the heart condition. the other conditions did not cause the death. the on use of phentinyl, did not
cause the neck restraint. >> so these are items that may have contributedbut were not the direct cause? >> correct. >> testimony from -- from expert witnesses and the medical examinerer today in the derek chauvin tile. brandt williams is from minnesotapublic radio who has been covering the trial and checking in periodically, it's nice to see you again, thank you for joining us tonight. >> good to be here. >> it feels like this is a big pivot in the case from the prosecution that we have heard earlier in the case about mr. floyd as a human being. we have heard about the witnesses and the other people who saw what happened in terms of the confrontation that led to mr. floyd's death. now we are in the medical and physiological end of his life. it feels like the third act of this presentation. does that seem right? >> yeah.
it seems to be that the prosecution is certain is to wind down their case as you mentioned, they went through basically hitting all the points that they started off by mapping out during their opening statements which seemed like you said ten days a ago, it fees like maybe aundred -- a hundred days ago. today was as you mentioned, one of the big moments where the medical examiner who was the only can doctor to examine george floyd when he died, and had not seen be the video before he came to his conclusions. which is important to note. but testified today and revealed the findings that we are just listening to. >> and in terms of how this is going to resolve as you say, it feels like it's sort of maybe the last act of the prosecution laying out their case. in terms of the way the prosecution has performed, any surprises that have arisen on cross examination with the witnesses. is it clear to you what the defense's best cards will be to
play whenfinally take their side, present their side of it? >> it seems that the cards they have to play, erik karlsson is trying to poke holes in to how much of a role derek chauvin played in george floyd's death. now, i'm not a lawyer and i'm not going try to read you the legal instructions on the counts that he is facing on second degree murder and third degree manslaughter. it comes down to the degrees of culp ability that he plays. it may be between a manslaughter or a second degree murder, depending on how much jurors believe that chauvin was involved in george floyd's death. how much did george floyd a's compromised heart play in even though it, yes, dr. baker said, it was the actions of the officers that precipitated this
dying, but, jurors are going to have to decide how much of chauvin's role is responsible. >> brett, one last question for you, as we head in to the weekend, we start looking ahead towards what is going to happen next in the trial. how much is minneapolis paying attention to this trial? how closely is this being watched in the community? it's definitely getting a lot of attention. i walk through downtown minneapolis every day. i'm walking by the courthouse. there's a presence of people outside of the courtroom, it's not a large presence at times. but usually there's a number of people outside waving banners and support of george floyd. there have been mornings when i start about 6:00 in the morning. i remember walking by the courthouse before 6:00 arm and hearing people blasting loud music. loud club music and gearing up for another day of protests and demonstrations. so, people are paying close attention, and some people are
getting vofed. they are going out and they are speaking out and they are taking to the streets. >> brandt williams, reporter from minnesota possible radio as the derek chauvin trial continues. thanks for your time tonight, good to see you. >> your welcome, good to see you again. much more ahead, stay with us. and winning. but now, the for the people act stands on the brink of becoming law. ensuring accurate elections. iron-clad ethics rules to crack down on political self-dealing. a ban on dark money. and finally reducing corporate money in our politics. to restore our faith in government. because it's time. for the people to win.
advil dual action fights pain 2 ways. it's the first and only fda approved combination of advil plus acetaminophen. advil targets pain. acetaminophen blocks it. advil dual action. fast pain relief that lasts 8 hours.


i'm urging the federal government to create a vaccination surge program to help states like michigan now, it's michigan and the midwest today and tomorrow, or next week, it could be the northeast or the south or another part of our country. >> a vaccination surge program. it's a press briefing today, urging the white house for a vaccination surge is program. she wants an extra allocation basically of vaccines to her state. the governor said that she made that case directly to president
biden and it's not the first time she started to say this ask. michigan right now is the hottest hot spot in the country. nationwide, the country is leveling out at 65,000 new cases per day. which is a very high plateau, that is bad. but, look at michigan, look at the shape of the graph in michigan. this is a graph of michigan's new cases per day. right now. look at that compared to the u.s. yeah. that steep red line shows the seven day average of new cases. as of yesterday, the seven day average in michigan is over 7,000 cases a day. approaching the worst it's been. and you can see how swiftly that number is rising. it has been rising since mid february and the incline is getting steeper over time and we all know what follows an increase in cases. you are seeing them rise to a dangerous level. they started to creep up in late february and it's bad enough now
that hospitals in the detroit area are once again nearingfull capacity statewide in michigan. hospitals are at 92% capacity with that case number graph still rising that steeply. michigan is in a bad place. but, with the vaccine roll-out, nationwide, going great with more and more vaccines being delivered every week, with an ever increasing supply of vaccines available to the american people it would seem that the there's something as a country that we should be able to do to help a state in crisis like michigan is in right now. we have been reporting on the idea since last week. when governor whitmer said to please surge more extra vaccine doses to her state to help fight the spike in cases. vaccinated people don't, not only do not get sick and die of covid, by and large they don't get infected or spread the virus either. they could benefit from getting vaccinated quickly.
her call with president biden to make that request for more doses, for a second time last night, the president reportedly talked to governor whitmer about the federal government's plan to help michigan better administer the doses they have gotten. and he reportedly said that the federal government will help michigan increase the testing capacity which is important. the president reportedly told the governor that michigan will get more personnel to help administer vaccines and they will get more theraputics and treatments for people who have covid to keep them from getting hospitalized or dying. but after that was reiterated in the plan in the covid briefing, he stressed there's not going to be a surge vaccine program. that the white house had will continue to distribute vaccines based on population alone. at least for now. rather than surging extra vaccine to places that have bigger problems in transmission.   when it comes to the brass
tax of how many doses delivered to michigan wound up in people's arms, whether it's that they are being super inefficient with the doses they got. we crunch the numbers and if you use cdc data, they look like they are doing what everyone else has been doing. they have given out 76% of the doses they have received. you would like it to be 100%. 76% is on par with the same figure nationwide, better than many other states. michigan doesn't seem to be having a crisis right now because they have got a particular, they are doing a particularly bad job administering vaccines. it seems they have a ton of virus right now. wouldn't a ton of extra vaccine help them? joining us now is a doctor, he is a family physician in lansing, michigan. he is the michigan state lead for the committee to protect medicare. it's a pleasure and honor to have you with us tonight. thank youfor taking time out of your busy practice. >> the pleasure is all mine, thanks for having me. >> could you use more vaccine in
your practice? >> absolutely. we could use more vaccines in our state. look, the -- i appreciate all the efforts that the biden administration as undertaken to help americans get to where they have gotten. they have instituted a national plan where they did not have one before. but michigan is hurting. and we are hurting for a lot of reasons that i am sure we will get in to. but, the federal government can do a lot of more to help with the vaccines that we get week after week after week. if you don't know how many vaccines you are getting, you cannot schedule people or patients effectively. you cannot schedule when you don't know how many are coming and how much you are getting. if the federal government surged our capacity, then entities across the state that are administering vaccines could scale up. i was talking to the health department directorer in my county, she'd love to scale up the capacity, we can quickly
start immunizing people, we need to know how many are coming our way. we need them in our freezers and refrigerators so we can schedule people as effectively and efficiently as possible to get shots in arms as quickly as we can. >> do you think that michigan is having a particular problem or sort of the same problem that everyone is having at the same level of vaccine uptake, of people having the options of taking the vaccine and not wanting to get it or not wanting to get it now? is that dynamic the same as other physicians are hearing around the country or is something special happening in your state? >> what is happening in michigan as far as the rising cases is a perfect storm. vaccine uptake is one thing and we have more b117 strain here than anywhere in the country except for florida. we have school districts that are open in person. many of them across the state and while we don't think the
kids are getting it in the classroom, they are getting it at after school activities, and sporting events and we have got mixed messaging coming from political leaders. you know, we have got our democratic governor and we have republicans that lead the house and the senate. and for the better part of the past year. they have been down playing this. they have been parroting the trump talking points and telling people not to take it seriously and health experts don't know what we are talking about, they showed up on the house floor not wearing masks to spite the governor, and the single biggest predictor of whether or not somebody is going to get the vaccine is the political affiliation. 36% of republicans say they are not getting the vaccine ever. and that is 6% of democrats. the patients of mine who are conservative are more likely to refuse and we are spending a bunch of extra time talking to people about how the vaccines
work, why they are safe. and why people should get them and how we need to reach that 80% number to get to herd immunity. and sometimes i'm able to convince people and sometimes it's hard as an individual physician to compete with the things that the elected officials look up to. and the officials that they are hearing every day, it's hard to compete with that. >> doctor, family physician in lansing, michigan, thank you for joining us tonight, i know there's not a lot of national focus. i hope you will come back with us as your state comes up with options to fight the battle. >> thank you so much, thanks for is having me. ? all right. we will be right back. stay with us. we will be right back. stay with us walk it off look one more mile look reply all look own your look... ...with fewer lines. there's only one botox® cosmetic. it's the only one...
...fda approved... ...to temporarily make frown lines... ...crow's feet... ...and forehead lines... ...look better. the effects of botox® cosmetic, may spread hours to weeks after injection, causing serious symptoms. alert your doctor right away as difficulty swallowing, speaking, breathing, eye problems, or muscle weakness may be a sign of a life-threatening condition. do not receive botox® cosmetic if you have a skin infection. side effects may include allergic reactions, injection site pain, headache, eyebrow, eyelid drooping, and eyelid swelling. tell your doctor about your medical history, muscle or nerve conditions, and medications including botulinum toxins as these may increase the risk of serious side effects. so, give that just saw a puppy look. and whatever that look is. look like you... with fewer lines. see results at botoxcosmetic.com it only takes a second for an everyday item to become dangerous. tide pods child-guard pack helps keep your laundry pacs in a safe place and your child safer. to close, twist until it clicks. tide pods child-guard packaging.
♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ comfort in the extreme. ♪♪ the lincoln family of luxury suvs. ♪♪ [sfx: psst psst] allergies don't have to be scary.f luxury suvs. spraying flonase daily stops your body from overreacting to allergens all season long. psst! psst! all good

this weekend in a different part of our solar system, really big news, after the speck tack
hard feedback after landing the rover on mars. they are going to try to launch a teenie-tiny helicopter. it will be the first powered flight on some other planet. it's almost ready to go, it's been getting the batteries solar charged and gave the rotors a test spin. if it works as designed, it will be a short hop ten feet up for 30 seconds. a giant leap for human kind. sunday night. we will all be watching space. we will be right back. kraft. for the win win. ever notice how stiff clothes can feel rough on your skin? for softer clothes that are gentle on your skin, try downy free & gentle. downy will soften your clothes without dyes or perfumes.
the towel washed with downy is softer, and gentler on your skin. try downy free & gentle. for people living with h-i-v, keep being you. and ask your doctor about biktarvy. biktarvy is a complete, one-pill, once-a-day treatment used for h-i-v in certain adults. it's not a cure, but with one small pill, biktarvy fights h-i-v to help you get to and stay undetectable. that's when the amount of virus is so low it cannot be measured by a lab test. research shows people who take h-i-v treatment every day and get to and stay undetectable can no longer transmit h-i-v through sex. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects include a buildup of lactic acid and liver problems. do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your doctor about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b, do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your doctor. common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache.
if you're living with hiv, keep loving who you are. and ask your doctor if biktarvy is right for you. look at this human trying to get in shape. if you're living with hiv, keep loving who you are. you know what he will get? muscle pain. give up, the couch is calling. i say, it's me, the couch, i'm calling. pain says you can't. advil says you can.
putting my vaccination sticker back on. just going to, keep reaffixing it to things. i don't recommend sticking it to your head if you are going to then stick it to the rest of the articles of clothing the rest of the week. that does it for us tonight, we will see you monday, and it's time for "the last word" ali is in for lawrence tonight. >> i am loving the ingenuity story, orville