especially, is that ought to not, the filibuster ought not to apply to benefits and other issues surrounding protective classes. so that's what i think we should do. i'm not saying get rid of the filibuster. if the president wants to keep the filibuster, fine. let do it for civil rights and voting rights. >> congressman jim clyburn, thank you so much for making time. really appreciate it. that's "all in" on this tuesday night. therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. good evening. >> good evening, chris. thank you for being on myshowlast night. it was great. you really are a very, very, very critical, strong thinker on policy in general but on covid stuff in march. and i feel like you are doing absolutely fantastic work right now, explaining how these policy changes will impact people's lives. and you're firing on all
cylinders, my friend. >> thank you very much. i appreciate it. >> thank you for joining us at home. happy to have you here. tomorrow democrats in washington will be wearing their sunday best. it is a really big landmark day for them at 9:00 a.m. they'll start the home stretch final debate to pass the american rescue plan. a big covid relief bill that is the first thing the biden administration and the democrats in congress put their shoulders to when they got sworn in just two months ago. and you know, time will tell how this legislation is viewed over the long haul. but just at face value, it is more wide reaching progressive legislation than anything past, anything passed at least the last two democratic presidents. legislatively in terms of its progressive reach, in terms of its reach to make things better for people who need the most help. it is definitely on par with the affordable care act, with
obamacare. but this bill, what the senate passed this weekend, what the house will pass tomorrow, what president biden is about to sign, will hit a wider target than the affordable care act ever aimed at. as huge an accomplishment as that was to reform the absolutely broken u.s. health care system to try to improve it in a fundamental way, this bill is bigger. it is aiming at more. it will strike what is hoped to be a decisive blow against the pandemic in terms of funding a coherent techno democratically response. everything from testing to the vaccine rollout. we are in the middle of the largest vaccine rollout in the history of the country. it will cover all of that. plus basic research. plus the cdc getting its act together on data and analytics and so much more. it will expand the reach of obamacare. for millions of americans, this thing that will pass tomorrow, it will reduce your health
insurance premiums. and actually port people at the lowest end of the spectrum, people with health insurance thanks to the affordable care act, a lot of those folks will see their health insurance premiums go to zero because of this bill passing tomorrow. this bill radically increases access to health insurance in this country. particularly for the people who can least afford it. it is expected to cut child poverty in half in this country through direct aid to families and through big sustained tax credits for families with kids. it is expected to add 7 million jobs to the economy. it will direct $130 billion to u.s. schools. i mean, just take piece of it. even if that's all this piece was doing, especially after what schools have been through this past year. just that school funning alone, that $130 billion for schools alone would have democrats putting on their best twin sets and shining up their shoes tonight in anticipation of what they'll pass tomorrow. just the school funding alone is
a really big deal. for everybody who has been waiting on the direct stimulus payment that will come as part of this bill. if the house passes it tomorrow, and there isn't a delay in getting it to the white house for the president's signature, those direct $1,400 payments may start going out next being. people who have direct deposits set up will see the money arrive first directly in their bank accounts. people getting a check instead of direct deposit will get it soon there after. the white house explained that president biden is not planning on putting his name anywhere on the check when the checks go out. and that you know, probably shouldn't be a surprise. it's not his style. it is a petty move for a president to do something like that. but honestly, as i get older, as i live through more and more years of republican governance, i'm getting more and more petty all the time about stuff like this. only because republican presidents put their name on everything. democratic presidents are the
ones who are all modest. if i was a democratic president, i would put my name only check like a big hologram on it too. so it glowed when you open the envelope. like a greeting card that plays a song when you open the envelope and would it sing my name. bling at you, sing at you. i would do anything. i would put sequins on the thing. it would be all about remembering which party made this happen and which party all voted against it. but like i said, as i develop an increasingly severe case of the o-l-d, i'm getting catier and pettier with each passing day and biden is not doing that. it is why he is president and nobody asked my advice on these things. get petty for once. this is a big f-everything deal as someone once said. while democrats prepare for that big, big day, as president biden man's his big prime time speech on covid on thursday night,
which should also be a big deal, thursday will be the country, our country and every country, marking the one-year anniversary of the global declaration of the pandemic. as we head toward that on thursday, as more capitol rioters get arrested every day, including two in the last two days who spent the morning of the capitol attack with former president trump's friend and political adviser, roger stone who trump pardoned for multiple federal felonies to the men he spent january 6th with, who have been arrested for their roles in taking part in the capitol attack. as one of the appointees of the state department was ordered by a federal judge to remain in custody going into trial because of that man's leadership role and directing capitol rioters in attacking capitol police that day. as president biden's new attorney general merrick garland is finally slated to be confirmed tomorrow.
the proverbial autopsy can finally begin as to what the justice department under bill barr. so someone can take the helm of the sprawling january 6th capitol attack investigation and start once again informing the public where things are going with that. with all of these things simultaneously underway, today and tonight and into tomorrow. we are keeping our eyes on all those things. there's been a lot of developing news over the day and the evening. i'm not sure how theshowwill go because we are expecting continuing breaking news throughout the hour. even as we're keeping an eye on that, there is something else that i want to direct your attention to. because to me, this is something that was already shocking at a lot of levels. but it has just veered off in a quite unexpected direction. one that i thought was farfetched at first glance which i thought was not nearly as farfetched as i thought. all right. the year 2000, there was a
sheriff's election in dekalb county, georgia. it is a really big county in georgia. it includes a big part of the metro area. on the east side, the county seat is decatur. in 2000 in the sheriff's election in dekalb county, the incumbent sheriff was voted out to the relief of a lot of people. the incumbent sheriff who lost that election, his name is sydney dorsey. i say it was a relief when he got voted out. he was widely perceived to be very corrupt. he was under investigation for a bunch of corruption allegations at the time. having his sheriff's deputies do not only personal work for him and his family but making his deputies moon height for his personal security business on the side. there were investigations into the contracts that he had doled out for the gigantic dekalb county jail. and whether he had corrupted those contracts, too. so he was a sheriff with a terrible reputation under investigation for a lot of things. he was up for re-election if
2000 and he lost. he lost to a guy who specifically ran against him on anti-corruption platform. his opponent saying he would clean it up, fire deputies involved in these alleged schemes of the existing sheriff. it was a close race in dekalb county but the incouple bent guy lost. then after the election. before the new sheriff was sworn in. actually three days before the new sheriff was due to be sworn in, the new sheriff, the anti-corruption crusade here had won the election and ousted the incumbent sheriff, he was walking up the driveway of his house in dekalb county. it was his wife's birthday. he was carrying a dozen roses for her in the house. she heard him drive up. she knew he was home and she heard what sounded like fireworks in the driveway. when she went out to see what was happening, there was her husband laying in the driveway dead. he had been shot 12 times. murdered in an ambush attack
three days before he was due to be sworn in to start his new job as the elected sheriff of dekalb county. and the sheriff who he had defeated is the person who was indicted for arranging his murder. the outgoing sheriff who had been under investigation anyway for all those charges, he was hit with charges of felony murder, theft, violations of oath, and racketeering. racketeering. under georgia state law. ultimately he was convicted and the sheriff got life without the possibility of parole for the felony murder charge. but then on top of that, life without possibility of parole, there is nothing on top of that really but they added additional years on top of that. the violation of oath charges and the racketeering charges of which he was also convicted put an extra 23 years on his sentence in addition to life without parole. racketeering. now, racketeering is something we associate with the mafia, right? with prosecutions of impossible bosses and big ongoing highly
structured organized crime outfits. that's what we think of as racketeering. but in state law, in georgia law, particularly, it is applied to a much wider set of crimes than you might think. it is, i'm oversimplifying here a little bit but it is basically applied to crimes where prosecutors think they can prove a pattern of linked criminal acts. not just one off offenses that are not leading toward any particular aim. and i am oversimplifying that and i am not a lawyer. do not cite me on your defense if you're picked up. but you can see the way the charges are used in georgia. in the dlips when there are high profile cases, and those are charges brought. the murder of the new sheriff by the corrupt outgoing sheriff, that he had defeated in the election, that was prosecuted, as i said, both as a murder and also as racketeering. convictions on both fronts. the prosecutor who litigated the case, john floyd, delveded that couldn't 56 of that georgia
sheriff all the way to the georgia supreme court including the racketeering charges, delveded it all the way to the top level in state law and the case stood up. and that disgraced sheriff and now convicted murderer sydney dorsey is still in prison for that crime. convicted murderer, convicted racketeer. you see racketeering charges brought in georgia in also the kinds of cases that maybe seem more intuitive. there was a big set of arrests in georgia in october. they called it operation caged doves. which seems a little melo dramatic. about 46 people were arrested. and a huge big long string of charges brought against all of them. between them, there were four charges of felony murder, four charges of kidnapping, 24 charges of aggravated assault, three charges of heroin trafficking, three charges of meth trafficking, three charges of various times of financial fraud. but look up at the top. 92 charges of racketeering. they rolled up this whole street
gang. and charged them with lots of individual crimes and then charged all of them with violations of the rico act. and racketeering act. you should think of it as a mafia thing, something that is used against gangs but it is more than that. in december in georgia, there were racketeering charges brought against a budge of officials. it was a gambling ring. central in the convenience stores and mini marts in georgia. in 2018 there was this tidy little thing. charges brought in white georgia. the police chief, his son-in-law and his wife. charges were brought against the police chief and his son-in-law who was the town's only other police officer, and his wife who was also the town manager. they were, the allegations were that they were basically involved in a planned scheme to give people bogus citations,
radically overcharge them for those citations, and then pocket the money. it helps to have the patrol officer of the chief of police and the town manager all in a scheme like that. they were brought up on racketeering charges for that. racketeering charges. a pattern of criminal acts all leading toward a criminal purpose. and that charge is a really serious one in a state like georgia. like 20 years in prison serious. but that charge turns up in cases of all kinds, including lots of cases involving allegedly corrupt public officials. perhaps the most surprising and most high profile case that they turned up in was one that you will remember. the atlanta school's cheating scandal. do you remember this? this was national news. the top of the national news. when 11 educators were convicted in georgia state court in that cheating scandal in april 2015.
from nbc news world headquarters in new york, this is "nbc nightly news." reporting tonight. lester holt. >> good evening. it's bad enough when kids cheat in school to get ahead. but the teachers themselves, today many atlanta, nearly a dozen former educators were convicted on racketeering and other charges for their part in one of the nation's biggest cheating scandals. prosecutors say it was a massive conspiracy to make sure kids passed standardized tests, even if it meant giving kids the correct answers. the scandal dates back a did he go aid. it involves dozens of schools and grown-ups who apparently failed one of the first lessons we were all taught. >> nearly a dozen former educators convicted on racketeering and other charges. racketeering charges there, too. they were not a gang. these are educators. crumb educators, as was proven in rt could. but this is 12 teachers and other educators put on trial. the sprawling case, accusing them of basically a systematic
form of cheating on standardized tests. one of the 12 teachers put on trial was acquitted. but 11 of the remaining 12 were convicted. among other things on, racketeering charges. all of them. with that harsh penalty looming for all of them of up to 20 years in prison. that trial in the atlanta cheating scandal was the longest jury trial in the history of the state of georgia. and i'm not talking about the overall proceedings from the first arrest to the first court hearings to the trial to the sentencing and all the rest of it. i don't mean how long the whole thing took to be resolved. just the trial itself. the day after day, in the actual courtroom fighting it out. the trial itself took six months. there is never been a longer trial in the state of georgia with a dozen defendants. this incredibly ambitious charge. the prosecutor who led the team, who got those couldn't vikss in the atlanta cheating scandal was at the time, an assistant d.a.
named fonnie willis. here she is. the tape that we've got from that time. the elected d.a. is at the micro phone leading the press conference. you see fonnie willis there. she led the prosecution team on the right side there. and interestingly, when they decided to pursue that case that way, when they pursued those charges against the teachers and principals and administrators all caught up in this cheating scandal, the prosecution team under fani willis brought in a special prosecutor specifically to make them, to make the case in the racketeering case. form specific felony sxharnlg to see it through to conviction. that's the man. the specialist who they brought in there. the guy on the left. his name is john floyd. whose name i just said a moment ago because that's the same john floyd who obtained the conviction, the racketeering conviction against the crooked sheriff sydney dorsey.
in case where dorsey murdered his would be successor after beat him in an election in the year 2000. john floyd is the one who got that conviction, including the racketeering conviction and then defended it to the supreme court. tacked 20 plus years, tacked 20 years on to a sentence that was already life without parole because of that racketeering conviction. years later, fani willis was leading the teacher scandal in atlanta, she went to him. she brought in the state's racketeering prosecution expert. she brought in john floyd to get the racketeering convictions against the teachers. in case, too, and it worked. however unlikely it might have seemed to have those kinds of charges. in kind of case, he did it and it stuck and it worked. and now not that many years later, fani willis is the elected district attorney herself in the largest county in georgia, in fult only county. and fani willis has announced a
criminal investigation into efforts by former president trump and others to corrupt the results of the presidential election in georgia. she said when she announced the opening of that investigation, that racketeering was one of the crimes she was potentially investigating in question, efforts to corrupt the election results. now reuters is first to report, and willis' office has confirmed that willis has gone back to the same guy. she's gone back to john floyd who has had a hand in the highest profile and most unlikely seeming dleek prosecutions in recent georgia law. john floyd who has since gone on to successfully prosecute rico cases under state law. this is his book. he literally wrote the book how to prosecute dleek cases. rico, state by state. a guide to litigation under the state racketeering statutes. he literally wrote the book on
racketeering charges. reuters has said that, including the trump investigating. the dean of mercer university law school in macon, georgia, says about this higher quote, it's not a stretch to see where fani lewis is taking this. if president trump engaged in two or more acts that involved false statements that were an attempt to falsify material fact like the election results, then you can piece together a violation of the racketeering act. it is a felony and it can carry penalties up to 20 years in prison. the dean says there are not a lot of people who avoid prison time on a racketeering offense. it is honestly a shocking thing that the immediate former president of the united states is facing multiple live criminal investigations. by new york state prosecutors, by georgia state prosecutors. cnn and the "wall street
journal" and other news organizations have recently reported even more trump properties and developments and financial entanglement that's have been subpoenaed as part of a new york prosecution. the new york investigation has itself brought on and experienced mob prosecutor as a special prosecutor to help them with their work this. but if georgia is looking at a potential racketeering case against the former president, now with the help of a specialist prosecutor who does this for a living, who has already successfully brought super high profile racketeering prosecutions in that state and earned convictions on those charges, this just feels like a different level of the sort of drama and risk stratosphere here. a lot going on in the news right now. this is mind-blowing though. joining us now is david cook. he's the former district attorney for the macon judicial circuit in georgia. he has known fani willis for decades.
he's also known john floyd, the attorney who will help in her investigation of donald trump as a special prosecutor. i really appreciate you making time to be here tonight. thank you. >> thank you for having me. >> so, i am not a lawyer. i'm not an expert in famous georgia public corruption cases. so i want to give you a chance, if i explained any of that wrong or if i blurred something that should be sharply defined there. >> you pretty much hit the nail on the head, especially when it comes to john floyd. having john floyd on your team in a racketeering case is kind of like having the teacher write your term payment or having the author of the book, having the author of the textbook help you study for the test. you know your racketeering case will be done right if you have him on the team. >> should we see it as a sign that d.a. willis is going to
pursue racketeering charges that she has brought on john floyd? or will he be brought on to assess whether or not that's a realistic prospect? >> so based on the letters that i've looked at, that she sent to the governor and other public officials that you've referenced before, i think she's already seen the signs. because of that, she's brought in attorney floyd to help her make sure everything is done right. to make sure every "i" is dotted and every "t" is crossed. also, knowing d.a. willis as long as i've known her, she is used to being the starting quarterback. she's used to being part of a top team. so knowing her, i think this is part of her larger effort of making an all-star team for the office, and if needed for this case, as it is investigated.
>> when you say an all-star team, do you mean that she is pulling together the sort of best in class prosecutors and advisers in terms of doing this work? being an elected d.a., it is a very high profile position. she has taken this on. it has a huge national spotlight on her. we've been talking many detail about mr. floyd being brought on on the racketeering matter. from what else you know about how she's working this case, who else she's brought into her office, do you feel like she's assembling a formidable team for georgia, of georgia lawyers? >> i know she is. in fact, another sign of that is that she just hired mike carlson to be one of her top assistants. mike carlson is the author, along with his father, of the definitive book on georgia evidence. he gets to make the best argument of any lawyer i know which is judge, as i said in my book, have been, and you know,
every judge in georgia has that book sitting on their bench because it is the definitive guide to georgia evidence. but mike is not only a scholar and noted for his appellate ability. he is also that rare academic, also a street fighter in the courtroom. so it is evident to me that d.a. willis is putting together the best team possible just seeing those two hires and the movement that's i've heard that she's making and putting her office together. >> what do you think we the public should expect in terms of public facing actions? we know from the other public officials in georgia that she intended to take this matter before a fulton county grand jury and ask for subpoenas to documents and witnesses. we know from public reporting that i think two different grand juries were convened in fulton county last week. we therefore suspect she may be
bringing grand juries as well to get subpoenas for witnesses and documents. but the grand jury process is secret. is this something that you think we won't see any public signs of for months? or do you think there are things that we should look for in order to keep track of what's happening here? >> i don't think we will know exactly what is happening until the arrests are made or the indictments are handed down, if any. knowing fani the way i know her, i think d.a. willis is in addition to putting together the best team possible, she is going to follow the evidence wherever it leads and make sure every best practice is followed. so this case, if a case come together, it will be tight. it will be done as well as any d.a. could possibly make it. and it will be obvious that it is based on the facts and the law and not on personality or any other factors.
>> david cook, former macon, georgia district attorney. somebody has personal connections to a lot of the people involved. thank you for helping us understand this. as we do get further, any sort of public signs about what's happening, within the office or within this case, i hope you know that i'll call you back to help explain it to us. >> thank you so much. i would be honored. >> all right. much more to get to tonight. stay with us. we've been to e, including boise... ...and even bakersfield. yeah, we're exhausted. whew! so, tonight... i'll be eating the gyro quesadilla from...al quick stop...in... hyde park. (doorbell) excellent. and, tonight... i'll be eating the chicken pot pie from...founding farmers...in... foggy bottom. (doorbell) (giggle) oh, they're excellent. i had so many beignets i thought i was going to hurl. do ya think they bought it? oh yeah. ♪ limu emu & doug ♪
hey limu! do ya th[ squawks ]ught it? how great is it that we get to tell everybody how liberty mutual customizes your car insurance so you only pay for what you need? i mean it... oh, sorry... [ laughter ] woops! [ laughter ] good evening! meow! nope. oh... what? i'm an emu! ah ha ha. no, buddy! buddy, it's a filter! only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty, liberty, liberty, liberty ♪ in a recent clinical study, patients using salonpas patch reported reductions in pain severity, using less or a lot less oral pain medicines. and improved quality of life. that's why we recommend salonpas. it's good medicine.
in the romo household we take things to the max oh yeah! honey, you still in bed? yep! bye! that's why we love skechers max cushioning footwear. they've maxed out the cushion for extreme comfort. it's like walking on clouds! big, comfy ones! oh yeah! we need to reduce plastic waste in the environment. that's why at america's beverage companies, our bottles are made to be re-made. not all plastic is the same. we're carefully designing our bottles to be one hundred percent recyclable, including the caps. they're collected and separated from other plastics, so they can be turned back into material that we use to make new bottles. that completes the circle, and reduces plastic waste. please help us get every bottle back.

right after the great state of iowa held its primary elections last summer, this is what the secretary of state in iowa sent out when the results came in. good job! good job, everybody! well done. literally, fireworks. good job! and it was well done. it was a good job. iowa broke all turnout records for a june primary. there were no problems. everything worked. all systems go. broke the record. the way that iowa broke that
turnout record for the primary is that they sent everybody an application for an absentee ballot so everybody could easily vote absentee, vote by mail if that's what they wanted to do. that's what they did. that was the big change. worked like a charlie. no drama no, scandal, no problems, and record turnout. that election was on a tuesday, of course. and i kid you not. before that week was out, republicans in the state legislature had already drafted a bill to stop the state from ever doing that again. why? because it made it easy and safe for people to vote and people liked voting that way and they did vote that way in very large numbers without any problems. so republicans apparently believed, it must be stopped! despite iowa republicans' efforts, the secretary of state, the guy who had been so proud of iowa voters for breaking those turnout records, he did manage to send out absentee ballot applications to everyone in the
state again for the general election in november. and guess what? iowa voters liked that. and they broke turnout records again. another wildly successful election for iowa. over three quarters of registered voters in the state cast a ballot in the november election which is huge. well over half of those voters voted early. it was smooth and no hick-ups. no problems. so it must be stops. iowa's successful display of robust easy participating democracy appears to have driven the republican party batty. they have decide that had too many eians voted last year and they won't let it happen again. iowa's governor has signed a law which bans the secretary of state or anyone else from mailing out to everyone these applications for absentee ballots. that's what made it so easy for people to vote by mail. if do you vote by absentee ballot in iowa, it will no longer be counted unless it is
received by the time polls close on election day. even if it is not your fault, it is the postal service's fault that it got there late. and polls will close an hour earlier for same day election day voting in iowa. why did they shave an hour off the time people are allowed to vote on election day? no idea. the law also cuts over a week off the early voting period. when more than half the votes were cast in the last election. their cutting nine days off the early voting period. why? if any local elections official takes any steps to make voting easier in a county, that election official can be charged with a felony. this is really what republicans are doing. they really did look at the most successful highest turnout in iowa's history that had no problems and they said to. they, how can we make sure that never happens again? while iowa may be first across the finish line here in terms of getting a voter suppression law actually passed out of the legislature and signed into law
by the governor, there is a very big line of republican legislatures. in georgia, they have passed no fewer than a dozen different voter suppression bills would limit absentee voting, early voting, more voter i.d. requirements, specifically limit sunday early voting when black churches like to bring souls to the polls events right from church to polling places. in arizona, republicans in the state legislature are batting around all kinds of head spindling ideas, from giving themselves, giving the legislature itself, the power to overturn any election results it does not like, to tossing out any absentee ballots that aren't post marked by the thursday before the election day? even if the ballot arrives before polls close? really. republicans are working hard on this in state after state after state. they're doing everything they can to make it as hard as possible to vote. as i said, iowa is the first over the finish line on this. the new iowa anti-voting rights
law is officially on the books, including the threat to local elections officials that if they do anything to make it easier to vote, they're going to prison. and pretty much as soon as iowa's governor finished signing that, one of the country's most celebrated, relentless and successful voting rights litigators filed suit to stop it. mark elias successfully litigated dozens of bogus republican challenges to the 2020 elections, and republican efforts to make it hard to vote in those, too. can he stop this new wave of voter suppression laws? or does he have other ideas about how they can be stopped besides in court? mark elias joins us next. stay with us. oins us next stay with us ♪ ♪ (quiet piano music) ♪ ♪
comfort in the extreme. the lincoln family of luxury suvs. allergies don't have to be scary. spraying flonase daily stops your body from overreacting to allergens all season long. psst psst you're good
here you go, let me help you. hi mr. charles, we made you dinner. ahh, thank you! ready to eat? yes i am!

in 2020, iowa saw its highest turnout for any election despite the pandemic.
there is been any credible or even noncredible allegations of fraud, even made up bogus ones. trump won iowa in 2020. so did beleaguered senator joni ernest. because iowans won in 2020, that is why they never had to endure one of those rudy giuliani sideshowhearings that happened in all the swing states that trump lost. nevertheless, despite the record turnout and no claims of fraud, iowa republicans have made it their mission to enact a new sweeping bill to restrict voting rights. and the iowa republican governor just signed it into law last night. today, democratic voting rights attorney mark elias filed a lawsuit challenging the new law in iowa. it points directly to the irnly of iowa republicans trying to fix an election system that even they say is not broken. this is actually really good. listen. it says, the bill sponsors do not deny that iowa's elections
are secure. instead they've said additional measures are necessary to reassure iowans who turn out in record numbers in 2020 that this is the case. but it is the result of efforts to plant and sow baseless mistrust. not because there's any evidence that the integrity of the state's elections are legitimately in doubt. joining us now, mark elias. democratic voting rights attorney general. founder of democracy docket. mr. elias, it is nice to see you. thank you for making time. >> great to see you again. >> let me just ask you first if i've screwed any of this up in the telling or if it is the lay of the land with the challenge that you filed and with the new law. >> as usual, you're exactly right. the republicans have gone out in search, finding a problem that doesn't exist. they've passed a suppression law that no matter what else, they call it a suppression law.
>> have you received any response from the state since filing this lawsuit? what should we anticipate in terms of republican facing back and forth now that you've joined this fight with them? >> yeah. we haven't heard anything back from the state yet. at some point, i assume they will respond to the lawsuit. and then we'll go from there. the fact is, that iowa had good clean elections this november as they have in the past: and without any reason other than to make voting harder, iowa made voting harder. and that's the bottom line. in doing that, they have disadvantaged our clients and they have disadvantaged the voters of iowa. >> marc, one of the reasons i wanted to talk with you tonight is because i feel like you have been impassioned in the last few weeks about the real let the, the severity of the threat
coming from all of these republican controlled states that are at least moving, one after another after another after another, bills to make voting harder. and i know this is a fight that you have committed yourself to for your whole career and this is something in which you've had a lot of success. i feel like i'm reading in your public facing statements, real alarm about the amount of damage that can be done to the democracy right now by all the states pursuing all the different paths. >> it is just different this time. this is not to say that there are not other problems in the world. i recognize that there are other stories that have to be covered. but i am begging america and the media to pay attention to this. right now we are facing an avalanche of voter suppression that we have not seen before. at least not since jim crow, in state after state. not just iowa, not just georgia, it montana, missouri, florida,
texas. the list goes on and on. donald trump told a big lie that has led to, that led to an assault on democracy in the capitol on january 6th. the assaults we're seeing going on now in state capitals with the legislatures may be less deadly and less violent but they're every bit as damaging to our democracy. >> if this is a national avalanche of voter suppression as you describe it, is there a national response warranted from people who want to fight against this voter suppression? obviously you're taking this on at the granular level. when kim evans signed this bill, that became the first of the voter suppression laws signed into law despite all the ones that are moving in other states, you were johnny on the spot filing instantly against it. you're fighting grand larly on those front lines. what can happen at the state level by nonlawyers, by citizens who care about these things?
>> yeah. so two things. first at the federal level, we need the reauthorization of the voting rights act, the john lewis bill. we need them and we need them soon. at the state level, what people can do is they can stand up. they can tell their neighbors and their friends that this is not okay. they can't avoid the hard conversation when their crazy uncle says something crazy. they can confront it. they can go to town halls and confront their local and state legislatures. now is the time to stand up in public and be heard in the town square and say we demand our democracy be protected. >> you say that we need hr 1. that we need the voting rights, the restoration and advancement of voting rights represented by that bill and by the john lewis bill. the reason that there is cynicism that those will ever become law, evil as hr 1 has passed the house, is because of the existence of the filibuster in the senate and the resistance
of some senators to get rid of the filibuster, even if they were only to sort of tailor the filibuster so it couldn't be used to block voting rights legislation. it couldn't be used to block civil rights legislation, for example. i wonder if there is something that you would say to an arizona senator, for example, in terms of the stakes in arizona, and how that passing hr 1 by hook or by crook might save the country. >> here's what i say. there is a line from a supreme court decision of several decades ago that said the first amendment isn't a suicide run. neither are the senate rules. the senate rules are there to allow for minority participation and debate. it is not a suicide run. i don't know the right mechanism. but one way or another we need to have congress vote on hr 1 and the john lewis bill because
whatever else is at stake, without a functioning democracy, we won't have anything else. >> marc elias, democratic voting rights attorney, the founder of democracy docket. keep us apprised on this case. and we would love to keep talking to you about it. >> thank you very much,rachel. >> all right. one quick programming note on this line, speaking of voting rights, tomorrow night we'll be joined exclusively here live by stacey abrams, former democratic leader in georgia, former gubernatorial candidate in georgia, and national voting rights leader. stacey abrams have been warning specifically about georgian republican voting rights for years. now that they are moving ahead with what is described as the most aggressive voting rights roll back since jim crow, she is going to be our exclusive guest here tomorrow night. have more ahead tonight as well. stay with us. night as well. stay with us etwork security?
all our techs are pros. they know exactly which parking lots have the strongest signal. i just don't have the bandwidth for more business. seriously, i don't have the bandwidth. glitchy video calls with regional offices? yeah, that's my thing. with at&t business, you do the things you love. our people and network will help do the things you don't. let's take care of business. at&t. this is the sound of an asthma attack... that doesn't happen. this is the sound of better breathing. fasenra is a different kind of asthma medication. it's not a steroid or inhaler. fasenra is an add-on treatment for asthma driven by eosinophils. it's one maintenance dose every 8 weeks. it helps prevent asthma attacks, improve breathing, and lower use of oral steroids. nearly 7 out of 10 adults with asthma may have elevated eosinophils. fasenra is designed to target and remove them. fasenra is not a rescue medication or for other eosinophilic conditions.
fasenra may cause allergic reactions. get help right away if you have swelling of your face, mouth, and tongue, or trouble breathing. don't stop your asthma treatments unless your doctor tells you to. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection or your asthma worsens. headache and sore throat may occur. this is the sound of fasenra. ask your doctor about fasenra. if you can't afford your medication, astrazeneca may be able to help. when our daughter and her kids moved in with us... kids, bedtime! ...she was worried we wouldn't be able to keep up. course we can. what couldn't keep up was our bargain detergent. turns out it's mostly water, and that doesn't work as well on stains. so, we switched back to tide. one wash, stains are gone. kind of like our quiet time. [daughter: slurping] what are you doing? don't pay for water. tide is concentrated with three times the active cleaning ingredients. if it's got to be clean, it's got to be tide.
are you packed yet? our flight is early tomorrow. and it's a long flight too.
once we get there, we will need... buttercup! ♪ cranky-pated: a bad mood related to a sluggish gut. miralax is different. it works naturally with the water in your body to unblock your gut. free your gut, and your mood will follow. do you have a life insurance policy you no longer need? now you can sell your policy, even a term policy, for an immediate cash payment. we thought we had planned carefully for our retirement. but we quickly realized that we needed a way to supplement our income. if you have one hundred thousand dollars or more of life insurance you may qualify to sell your policy. don't cancel or let your policy lapse without finding out what it's worth. visit conventrydirect.com to find out if you policy qualifies. or call the number on your screen. coventry direct, redefining insurance.
so this is interesting. i did not know this was coming. the fbi today released more video. fairly high resolution video of the suspect they say left two pipe bombs near the capitol on january 6th. one near the republican national headquarters, one near the democratic national headquarters on the eve of the attack on the capitol. the fbi knows the exact shoes the person had on. the clothes. but they do not know who the person is. the fbi is asking people to watch the new video they just released, hoping it might jog somebody's memory. the mannerisms, the pieces of clothes you might recognize. they are offering a $100,000 reward to anybody who provides
information for the suspect being identified. it's been 60 days for the person to be at large. the person who had the means and knowledge to make operative pipe bombs. it's more than 60 days this person has been at large. and all this time later, that is especially all we know about the status of the investigation into the mad pipe bomber in the capitol attack who is still out there. federal investigators and prosecutors handling the investigations have been silent for weeks. i don't know why this is but they have not briefed the public on the subject since the week of the inauguration. why is that? among other things, that means we still have open questions about why the person who placed the pipe bombs is still at large, and how the overall prosecution of the occasions is handled. there are hard questions that
need to be asked about the number of people the fbi asked information about, and the fbi said have been involved in serious crimes that have resulted in tips, and journalism flushing out the tips, finding the people, and in some cases, broadcasting or recording confessions from these people. but they haven't resulted in any law enforcement activity to those persons. we don't know whether the overall investigation has been hampered or slowed down by the fact that new leadership hasn't been taken over. there is still a holding pattern. the last point, at least, we may get clarity. president biden's pick to lead the council, merrick garland, who will take over the
investigation what happened on january 6th and everything else. and maybe that will mean a new strategy. we'll see. we hope it will mean more public facing information about the status of the on going investigations. because the refusal to talk to the public is not good, and so far that is happening during the biden administration, and maybe it's because merrick garland isn't there. more ahead. stay with us. ♪ and a little bit of chicken fried ♪ ♪ cold beer on a friday night ♪
♪ a pair of jeans that fit just right ♪ ♪ and the radio up ♪ get 5 boneless wings for $1 with any handcrafted burger. only at applebee's. feeling sluggish or weighed down? it could be a sign that your digestive system isn't working at it's best taking metamucil everyday can help. metamucil psyllium fiber, gels to trap and remove the waste that weighs you down. it also helps lower cholesterol and slows sugar absorption to promote healthy blood sugar levels. so you can feel lighter and more energetic metamucil. support your daily digestive health. and try metamucil fiber thins. a great tasting and easy way to start your day. this is a color laser printer. and this is the color toner cartridge. they're so expensive, people just print in black and white so they don't have to keep buyin' them. walk with me. that's enough! the epson ecotank cartridge-free printer. big ink tanks. lots of ink. and you can save a ridiculous amount on replacement ink. print in color, all you want, without busting your budget.
but you might be bustin' a move. ♪♪ the epson ecotank. just fill and chill. so you're a small business, or a big one. you were thriving, but then... oh.
ah. okay. plan, pivot. how do you bounce back? you don't, you bounce forward, with serious and reliable internet. powered by the largest gig speed network in america. but is it secure? sure it's secure. and even if the power goes down, your connection doesn't. so how do i do this? you don't do this. we do this, together. bounce forward, with comcast business.
tomorrow really is going to be a huge day. 9:00 a.m. eastern tomorrow, the house will gavel in for the final debate on the biden administration covid relief bill. we have no reason to believe there will be drama there. 3w50i7bd has said he will sign it. it looks cooked but we'll see. at least at face value, this thing is going to happen tomorrow, more wide reaching and progressive than anything the last two democratic presidents. we will have full coverage of it tomorrow, and stacy abrams. now it's time for the last word with lawrence o'donnell. good evening. >> good eveng