action thank you for making time tonight. that is "all in" for tonight. "therachelmaddowshow" starts right now. good eveningrachel. >> chris hayes, how was your father's day. >> it was unbelievable. it was almost destroyed but a travel delay and i came very close to a just full breakdown in the airport. i felt it slipping away from me because i was already rolling the dice, but then that got fixed and i did get to have a lovely father's day dinner. it was awesome. >> fantastic. i'm glad your meltdown moved the world so that everything could be in place. well done. thanks. good to have you back. thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. happy to have you here. all right. so, it's ten years ago -- it's 2011 in the nation of iceland and a business man from iceland decided to launch a brand-new venture in his home country. and he was a businessman in a
very interesting position. his relatively young. he had retired from his previous job at the ripe old age of 43 after he got very, very, very rich from selling his previous company. but still if had his early 40s, he decided he hated being retired, decided he wanted to get back into the business world. and for a real challenge, he decided that what he wanted to do was use his own money, all the money he made on his previous venture, to launch a brand-new business of a totally different kind. he wanted to launch a brand-new business in a business sector that he had zero experience in. but credit where credit is due, this young icelandic businessman may not have known very much about his new area of business. but he definitely knew something about getting people's attention. ♪♪
♪♪ >> wow air. and credit where credit is due, it is actually kind of hard not to say, wow, when you get to the end of that add. wow airlines, a brand-new icelandic budget airline. while, yes, that was the theme from "top gun" played by a man in a butt-hugging purple sparkle suit with a cartoon tasmanian devil on his head, if that does not want to make you hop on a plane painted in a weird color to frolic in iceland.
how do you get better than that? maybe you get better than that when the airline is officially inaugurated and blessed by an icelandic body builder and priest. i'm not selling you that is the body builder on the right and the priest on the left. that is the body builder and the priest on the right. she is both. this is how she gave wow airlines her blessings, something involving scissors and diamond jewelry. this is not an everyday thing at any one of 100 different levels. the businessman who p founded wow airlines told iceland review how he chose the name for the airline. he said, quote, wow is, of course, just wow. and we have said that we simply find iceland to be wow! also, if you turn the name upside-down, it reads, mom, and everyone wants to be cuddled by the mom. so, perhaps you are getting the
vibe of wow air. top gun, purple sparkly suit, hair band guy, priest body builder and who doesn't want to be cuddled by the mom. wow! okay. wow airlines founded in 2011. eight years later, wow airlines went bellyup all of a sudden. it was a thursday in march of 2019 and the airline very suddenly ceased all operations and cancelled all of its flights, leaving wow airlines passengers stranded all across europe and north america, including people who were in the middle of multi-part trips. wow airlines eventually went into complete bankruptcy and sold off its fleet of planes. that might have been the end of the story of little upstart wow air. but then six months after wow air abruptly cancelled its flights and left all its passengers stuck all over the place, this lady turns up, an
american. she showed up in iceland, and she said that she was bringing great news. she was bringing wow air back to life. she held a press conference in a hotel conference room in september 2019. she announced at that conference room that her company, which was called u.s. aerospace associates, she announced they had bought wow air's assets and new wow air flights were going to start up between washington, d.c. and iceland in october of 2019. this is in september of 2019 she was holding this press conference. she was saying that wow air which as of that moment, no longer existed, it would be flying again in a month. in a month? really? even at the time it did smell a little weird. i mean, wow had sold off all of its planes. this person was all by herself at this big table. only wow's lawyer was there with her.
and you can see they tried to make it look official. they set up little icelandic and american flags like maybe she was some kind of diplomat or something. she put a plastic model of the wow airplane there with the flags. that honestly was what was left of the wow airlines fleet, just toys, just models, which would be hard to fly people around in even the best of circumstances. the other sign that something might have been a little wrong here was that nobody was entirely sure of this woman's name. local media at the time covering this press conference, which was big news, wow air is coming back. local media describing the press conference didn't know how to describe how to name the woman who was making this pronouncement about wow air. they described the press conference as being held by, quote, michelle roosevelt edwards, or michelle ballarin, as she is often known. oh, is she often known that way by a totally different name?
why is she often known by a different name? which is the name? please meet the new owner of your novelty discount icelandic airline. she goes by many different names. don't worry too much about it. anyway, flights will be resuming next month. have you seen the toy? flights did not resume the next month or the month after that or the year after that or to this day. and, you know, if you are interested in aviation and airline deregulation and the proliferation of interactional discount airlines, i mean, this is an interesting business story about the collapse of an airline and its weird apparent, but perhaps mythical resuscitation. if you're in iceland, though, it's quite a big story. tour i is huge in iceland. it's not that big a country. here's one whole airline, a relatively high profile airline, going under. if it's not going to fly again, what happened there? what was that? so, a few months ago,
journalists and investigative tv news program in iceland decided they were going to figure out what was going on. they too had trouble nailing down the name of this american woman who said she was going to revive wow airlines, quote michelle ballarin or michelle lynn golden or michelle roosevelt edwards, as she now calls herself. ultimately the icelandic reporters threw up their hands and decided they would just call her michelle. quote, the businesswoman has operated cargo flights in africa, owns an arms company in the united states but also a restaurant. she engaged in real estate business and ran her own investment bank, or so she says. but when it comes to wow air, quote, not much has happened. wow is not up and running or flying, although michelle has repeatedly announced news, reported high level appointments in iceland, russia and italy, discussed how wow will also be flying from italy and even her involvement in the restructuring
of the italian airline al tal i can't. yes, one thing they discovered is that michelle -- choose any of the last names you would like -- was not just doing this in iceland. she claims to be doing something with other airlines in other countries. from "the icelandic report," she claimed a large announcement of a new project was due, the restoration of the airline and she would be involved in the project at the request of the italian government. an italian newspaper discussed these plans in a sarcastic way. outlined ideas similar to those she has for a new wow. two months later there was no news, and when the italian government announced the end of alitalia at the end of the year, there was no mention of michelle being part of the new carrier. meanwhile, while all that was happening, michelle roosevelt edwards or michelle whatever her
name is, has been trying to convince people that she also owns a big chunk of iceland's other airline, its flag carrier, the major national carrier, iceland air. and she said that she will eventually be merging iceland air and wow air to one even bigger airline. well, that, again, is very exciting if it bears any relationship to reality, but the icelandic journalists found that her bid to buy shares of iceland air was rejected, reportedly on the claim there was no money behind the bid. her claim to own any shares of that company appeared to be totally false. and again, you know, maybe this seems like a weird side bar story. if you don't have any skin in any of these games, right? but for iceland, for that country where the whole pop lags of that country is half the population of washington, d.c.
and its airlines and its tourism is the only lynchpin for the country -- fishing and tourism -- it's worth figuring out who was messing with them like this because this is a really important part of their national economy and their international standing. so, the journalist from this icelandic tv newsshow, they started by chasing down the name of the american woman making claims about their country's airlines. they got quickly from the there's no answer to the name question to the closely followed on revelation that there was more than a little three-card monte going on here. they started to treat the story like they had basically hit upon an american con artist. so, this icelandic news crew went to meet her. they flew to the united states to find her and interview and get to the bottom of this. for their visit, she welcomed them to this sprawling estate, a historic 22-bedroom mansion on over 1,400 acres in virginia.
she gives them a tour. she tells them it takes 11 people employed full-time just to manage the grounds. she shows them the three kitchens. she says they are all in operation and the chef is on duty. but instead of a chef actually preparing any food that they can see, there was a guy in a chef hat setting out dunkin donuts coffee for them. that was what the chef did. nice hat though. and this woman proceeds to deflect all of the reporters' questions about wow air, saying things are happening soon and she can't reveal all her plans. but flights are going to start any minute now and they're going to be great. and then this just absolutely remarkable thing happens at the end of the interview. just watch this. >> before we wrap up because we started with the tour of your home, when i was looking over where i should go in a search engine, stuff that came up was
all real estate listings and said this place is for sale. is it for sale? >> no, it is not now. >> how long have you been here? >> this is a recent acquisition for us. >> it struck me there were no obvious personal items, no pictures. you obviously have a deep love of your late husband and your son. >> yeah. >> but no personal effects, no pictures. >> oh, i didn't take you into every corner of the property. >> you took us to your bedroom. >> yes. >> you don't have them on the mantle. >> no, i don't happen to put pictures on my nightstand. >> it's very sort of -- it's very formal. it's almost like walking into a rented property. >> no. it's not rented property, i can assure you. >> so, this is where you live. this is your home. this is your property? >> yes. >> you sure? are you sure about that? are you really? be honest. because this is from the "washington post" this weekend. this is just amazing. so, "the post" watched that
video and they went and confirmed in fact that that giant house in virginia really genuinely is for sale and it definitely does not belong to that lady. it does not belong to michelle roosevelt edwards or any of her many, many aliases. that mansion in virginia, quote, was then and is now owned by a company formed by david b. ford, a retired financier who are died in september 2020. mr. ford's widow said in an interview that she did not know michelle roosevelt edwards. "the post" showed her the footage of ms. edwards inside the property. she said, quote, she's in my house! how is she in my house? how is she in my house? it turns out that michelle roosevelt edwards, in addition to her many other ventures happens to be a licensed realtor in that part of virginia. so, maybe that's how she got in. maybe all the realtors in that part of virginia have to wear
outfits like that for all i know. maybe it's a weird regional real estate uniform or something. reached by "the post" about what seems to be a circumstance in which she is pretending to own a gigantic mansion in virginia, she declined to comment saying, quote, i am not giving media interviews at this time. why not? the last one went so well. we reached out to ms. edwards wechlt have not heard back. we live in hope. but as far as the whole wow airlines thing goes, it does make you feel a little bit embarrassed nationally. if you know somebody who is from iceland and they relayed this story to you, and especially in terms of what it means in their country, this is a sad thing to have to explain. ah, man, i'm sorry it went this way. we have a lot of con artists in our country. i'm sorry this happened to you. but you feel a little national defense around this.
but this woman, michelle roosevelt edwards, in addition to playing a bizarre role in that sort of business pages story and that international relations story, in that icelandic journal i story, she's a livewire in terms of something going on in our country. thanks to the current republican party, i mentioned that "the washington post" this weekend had done digging on her interview with the icelandic news crew and the house that does not appear to be hers. here's why "the washington post" went digging that direction in the first place. last december, as president donald trump pressed senior officials to find proof of election fraud, white house chief of staff mark meadows emailed acting attorney general jeffrey rosen, emailed him a letter detailing an outlandish theory of how an italian defense contractor had conspired with u.s. intelligence to rig the 2020 presidential election. the letter was printed under the
letter head of usa aerospace partners, a little-known virginia company. in early january 2021, a second virginia firm, the institute for good governance and a partner organization released a statement from an italian attorney who claimed a hacker had admitted involvement in the supposed conspiracy to rig the election against donald trump. according to the conspiracy, which has become known as italy gate, people working in coordination with cia officials, they used military satellites to switch votes from trump to biden and swing the results of the election. that was all on this letter head for this little known aviation company. what "the washington post" discovered about these two organizations, u.s. aerospace partners, whose letter head was atop the letter head press
releases promoting the italy gate conspiracy. what the post discovered about both of those organizations is they are both run by michelle roosevelt edwards, who was formally known as michelle ballarin but changed her name last year. you'll remember u.s. aerospace partners. that is the company that bought wow air or at least bought that little model, went to a hotel to proclaim that they'll be flying again. apparently that company and its founder have a side business in promoting crazy pants election conspiracy theories. and good to know about her. and if it only went as far as her and her facebook friends, okay. but how did the fake mansion bow-tie lady's letter about the italian satellite stealing the election from trump or whatever, how did that make it into the
white house? according to reporting from both "the washington post" and talking points memo, it may have been this woman, who you see doing multiple right-wing radioshowinterviews here. she runs a conspiracy website who's url is -- i kid you not -- italydidit.com. that's her web address, italy did it. she claims to have gone to a christmas eve party at mar-a-lago last year after the election whereupon she had the opportunity to tell donald trump personally and directly about the italy gate conspiracy. and the italy gate conspiracy from the lady who pretends to live in that big mansion who says she's going to revive wow air. yeah. and at one level this is, like, the definition of ridiculous and stupid. at some point, frankly, if you're feeling empathetic, it implicates personal concerns or stability concerns about some of the people involved. scams are one thing, sure.
but totally delusional fantastical thinking and projections of grandiosity and all of this stuff, you kind of almost start to feel bad for people in circumstances like this. but then you see how this isn't an isolated thing. it just makes you worry about the people involved. then you see how this fits into what's going on in the republican party right now and what it's done to -- the whole idea of republican governance. these documents that were generated by these companies belonging to the realtor, the bow-tie lady was pretending that the mansion was her house and she's about to launch an icelandic airline out of thin air in the next five minutes. these documents she created ended up getting stove piked to the very top of the united states department of justice. those documents were sent literally personally to the attorney general by the white house chief of staff. who was telling the attorney general that the justice
department must investigate these things. and as crazy as that is and as much of a conundrum this poses for the people who are in charge of justice department who have to figure out how much trash in their workplace they're going to dig out and how much can lay around stinking and maybe it'll dissolve, the fact remains that this kind of stuff is the foundation, is what has led to this fantasy on the right and this pretext in the republican party that there was something gravely wrong with the election. this is the same type of thinking, the same types of conspiracies that are running the arizona audit, run by the cyber ninjas. i'll just point out one other element of this. the lady with the fake house. remember she was michelle ballarin and then she was michelle lynn golden and she's michelle roosevelt edwards.
that kind of thing seems to be a thing among these folks, the adding of impressive old-timey american names to whatever they started out. the arizona circus, one of the key people involved in that with the magic technology we're not allowed to see, has the paper to look at the paper, he's gone through a name or two himself in recent years. the most recent iteration of his name uses pulitzer. the most recent iteration of her name uses roosevelt. i'm sure those things make them feel very important. in arizona today it was washington state republicans from the washington state legislature who were the latest officials to tour the arizona mess to copy it for their own state. so, you know, get ready. there's probably some qanon activists renaming himself einstein in spokane, washington, right now who's going to be leading the effort up there
because he's got money and have you read my translated documents? it is -- part of me struggles with, like, is it worth figuring it owho all these people are and what it is they're promoting? but then you see how it's being used, and you sort of can't afford not to follow it. it's really -- it's something to have to balance on the one hand the cheap low-rent, hilarious, bananas conspiracy, fantasy, con artistry stuff here from italy gate to the qanon conferences that mike flynn is making money at now to the arizona cyber ninjas thing to the one they want to do like that in georgia. i mean, it's one thing to notice how low rent and cockamamy this stuff is and the grifters and con artist and -- forgive me --
crazy people who are involved with all this stuff. balance that, though, with how this is being used with the republican party as a whole to justify a mass crackdown on voting right baufs the hysteria, the vague and incoherent hysteria that's been bolstered by all of these conspiracies about what nefarious thing happened in the election. this is what the republican party is building its current platform, a takeover of election administration procedures for their party alone wherever they can do it. a draconian and wholesale rollback of voting rights and ballot access everywhere they can control it in the states. but as crazy as all this stuff is, that's what it's being used for. and the democrats are going to take their biggest shot tomorrow afternoon at trying to stop it when the democrats tomorrow bring their big voting rights
and election protection bill to the senate floor for the first time. and in the beltway press, expectations are not high for whether or not they're going to be able to pull it off. but it is their best shot at heading off what the republicans are doing, even though the undergirding and the pretext for what the republicans are doing lies in territory this insane. what the democrats are up with with that bill tomorrow, it's as real and as dangerous as its pretext is absolutely cockamamy and bananas. and that's where we are. tonight, i'll be eating a pork banh mi with extra jalapeños. [doorbell rings] thanks, baby. yeah, we 'bout to get spicy for this virtual date. spicy like them pajama pants? well, the top half of me looks good. no wonder we still single. hello lenny28. wait a minute, i know a lenny28. ooo...lenny is cute!
can i get some privacy, please? it's all coming together. and teachers and school staff have worked hard to get us here. securing federal funding, vaccines and making sure public schools are welcoming and safe for everyone. this fall, it's back to school. five days a week. we're excited to be with our students in person. as a parent, i had concerns, but with safeguards in place, i'm ready now. let's do this! we're all-in! ready to help every child recover and thrive! a message from the american federation of teachers.


this was the headline in the "washington post" in 2016, the day after donald trump was elected. "obamacare's future in critical condition after trump's victory." within just a few months of trump being sworn in, the republican-led house had voted to repeal the obamacare act,
they took a victory lap that obamacare was going to be killed off. they thought they had it in the bag. but something else was happening far away from washington, d.c. in auditoriums and school gyms. people started showing up to town hall meetings with their members of congress demanding answers as to why congress was going to take health insurance away from millions of americans. here's what that looked like in arkansas with senator tom cotton. >> i can tell you three member of my family including me that would be dead -- dead -- and homeless if the it was not for aca. [ cheers and applause ] i'm an angry constituent. you work for us. [ cheers and applause ]
>> that's in arkansas, right? senator tom cotton is like, oh, this is not how things usually go. in the end, despite the long odds, republicans failed to get enough votes in their caucus to repeal the affordable care act because tens of millions of americans have insurance today they would not have because of the law. one reason people started showing up in those town halls well organized and in big numbers was because of a grass roots group called indivisible. what made indivisible different from other grass roots groups at the time was that it was started by former congressional staffers who knew what kind of pressure worked on individual members of congress because they had experienced it firsthand from the other side. they started from the key insight that people should only call and contact and pressure their own member of congress, their own senators. they help people follow the simple path of doing that, calling your member of congress, showing up at his or her office,
asking for town halls, getting lots of people to go to town halls to express themselves. senators and members of congress getting pressed hard and consistently locally by people who were definitely their own constituents. that was their secret sauce. now indivisible is trying to do it again. by now you have probably seen the same sort of gloomy headlines we saw in 2017 about the affordable care act that are being written this time about voting rights about the for the people act. but indivisible is still around, bigger than ever, and they're trying again. again against the odds they're calling on people to call their senators, record personal videos about voting rights, write letters to the editor in their local paper, visit congressional offices,showup at town halls and at rallies to keep the pressure on congress. they're kind of low key high impact activism and organizing has been effective over the past
few years. whether your senators or members of congress are with you or against you on the issues, according to indivisible the key is to stay focused because you are their constituent. the democratic effort to backstop voting rights for the for the people right is about to fail. it's about to hit a brick wall and there's no way over or under or around that on either side. but, you know, here's president obama and eric holder holding a town hall on it today called "all on the line." here's "the washington post" ed toirl board saying democrats should change the filibuster to pass the voting rights bill with only their votes. that is not a "washington post" editorial board kind of position, but they feel like they're up against the wall. and here's indivisible again pulling out all the stops asking people to turn up the pressure in every state in the country, again targeting your own senators, your own member of
congress. they have been effective at at changing the odds in congress. tonight on the eve of senate finally taking up the voting rights bill, it's worth checking in with them to get their prognostication on how this is going to go. joining us now is ezra levin. it's nice to see you. thank you for making time. >> great to be here,rachel. >> what do you think is going to happen tomorrow? >> i think we're going to see us get off to the races tomorrow. look, we are not headed towards a brick wall. we're headed towards a little bit of a speed bump, but this is all part of the plan. so, we've got to put tomorrow in context. there were several steps to the legislation coming out. first the for the people act had to pass the house. it did that. then it had to go through the senate process, go through the committee process, go through markup, go through vote. it's done all that. now the next step in the process is we have to debate whether there will be a debate. that is what the vote is tomorrow. the vote tomorrow is not the for
the people act. the vote is should the senate consider the for the people act. this is what we're sure is going to happen. mitch mcconnell is going to say, nope, we don't want to debate voting rights. we do not want to debate voting rights despite the avalanche of voter suppression happening across the country, we don't want to debate that. and that's the filibuster. they're going to use the filibuster to cap it. we do not expect the filibuster tomorrow. that is not what we expect. instead what we expect is for the bill to tabled. the democratic caucus is going to go into a room by themselves, talk to each other, then they're going to go on congressional recess. they're going to go back home to their districts over the fourth of july holiday. and politicians have a very scientific method for figuring out what they're going to do. they lick their finger, they stick it up into the air, and they see which way the wind is going to blow. and that's how they're going to
determine what happens in july. and if we are successful in changing the way the wind blows over the course of july 4th recess, they are going to take this up again. they're going to amend the fill buster and pass these voting rights reforms. >> the discussion about whether democrats can find a way to pass this, as you say, is about whether or not they can amend the filibuster rule so they can pass this with a majority vote. they can pass it with 50 democratic votes. i feel like the coverage of that is often sort of black and white, light switch on or off. you're either going to have the filibuster or you're not. it does seem like if this is going to happen, the more likely outcome is more of a dimmer switch an than on and off light switch. they could find a way to strengthen the filibuster or reform the filibuster or alter the filibuster or have a carve out for the filibuster in the way they've done on nominations, judicial nominations and other things in the past, specifically to protect voting rights.
do you think that is the way this will likely go if it does go forward, that they'll find a narrower path to doing this? >> i think that's exactly right. they're going to debate how they can quote/unquote strengthen the filibuster in order to have this quote. i think there are a lot of ways to skin this cat,rachel. we've seen proposals to lower the voting threshold from 60 down to 55 down to 50. we've seen proposals to allow vouchers for democracy bills. there are a lot of ways you can make amendments. it's not black or white right now. but ultimately the guide for whether or not this reform to the filibuster will work is does the majority -- does the senate majority have the ability to call an up or down vote on a piece of legislation or does mitch mcconnell and the senate minority have the ability to straight up veto as they're going to do tomorrow or do they have the ability to delay for months and months and months? so the senate with just the 50 democratic votes has the ability to change that rule. they can change it to whatever they want. and over the course of the 4th
of july recess, we don't need to get into the weeds of this reform or that reform. what we're calling for is american democracy to continue functioning. we're calling for a voting rights reform that is wildly popular, that 70%, 80% of americans in some states support. so, for you going out to your senator's town hall or congressional office this weekend, next weekend, the weekend after that, you don't need to get into the details of procedural rules in the senate. you just need to say are you going to pass democracy reforms or not? if not, why not? and don't talk to me about procedural vote issue. pass this bill. i'm going to be watching you. that's important whether you're in a red state, whether you're in a purple state, or whether you're in a deep blue state. we need every single senator to be hearing from their constituents, to be feeling that fire from their constituents. that's why the deadline for democracy is so important. that's why the events that pro democracy groups around the country are holding.
we hope everybody is going to join. this is not professionals doing all this work. this is schoolteachers, iv technicians and nurses standing up saying i guess i've got to do this. that's exactly right. it's up to all of this to do this in this moment. that's why it's called the deadline for democracy. >> ezra levin, cofounder of indivisible. keep us apprised of these next few weeks. we'll speak to you soon. thank you. >> thank you,rachel.   joining us next is the lead spontaneous so forth for the people act in the senate. that's live next. stay with us. te that's live next stay with us among my patients i often see them have teeth sensitivity as well as gum issues. does it worry me? absolutely. sensodyne sensitivity and gum gives us a dual action effect that really takes care of both our teeth sensitivity as well as our gum issues. there's no question it's something that i would recommend. with relapsing forms of ms... there's a lot to deal with. not just unpredictable relapses. all these other things too. it can all add up.
kesimpta is a once-monthly at-home injection... that may help you put these rms challenges in their place. kesimpta was proven superior at reducing the rate of relapses, active lesions, and slowing disability progression vs aubagio. don't take kesimpta if you have hepatitis b, and tell your doctor if you have had it, as it could come back. kesimpta can cause serious side effects, including infections. while no cases of pml were reported in rms clinical trials, it could happen. tell your doctor if you had or plan to have vaccines, or if you are or plan to become pregnant. kesimpta may cause a decrease in some types of antibodies. the most common side effects are upper respiratory tract infection, headache, and injection reactions. ready for an at-home treatment with dramatic results? it's time to ask your doctor about kesimpta.
(piano playing) here we go. ♪♪ [john legend's i can see clearly now] ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ make your reunion happen with vrbo. your together awaits. vrbo

reducing polling hours in polling places. how is that about election integrity? how does that reduce voter fraud? mandating that every precinct, no matter how large or small, have the same number of ballot drop boxes. a county of a million and a county of a thousand, the name
number. how does that reduce fraud? don't give them water. don't allow them to have a drink as they're waiting in the hot sun in lines to vote. what does that have to do with voter fraud? it has to do with cruelty. it has to do with nastiness, and it has to do with suppressing the vote. removing student ids from the list of valid forms of identification. that's election integrity? bunk. we know what you're doing. you don't want students to vote. yeah. don't let students vote. turn them off to the whole process and make america even more alienated. delaying the hours of sunday voting until the evening, which, coincidentally or not so coincidentally by these republican legislatures, makes it harder for black church goers to participate in voter drives after sunday services. how despicable. does that sound like jim crow,
my republican colleagues? it sure does to a lot of us. i challenge my republican colleagues -- i challenge you, republican senators -- come to the floor. defend these policies. tell us how they secure the vote. we know what you're up to. america knows what you're up to. and not to debate this, are you afraid to debate it? >> senate majority leader chuck schumer today on the house floor. tomorrow he will put the voting rights act on the senate floor, and there will be a vote on whether or not it gets debated. joining us now is senator merkley. i appreciate you being here. i know it's a big night. >> thank you,rachel. good to be with you. it's a significant event tomorrow. >> what are you expecting to happen tomorrow in the senate? >> well, i anticipate and i hope that we will have 50 votes to
proceed. i want democrats to be united. we've had engagement from every member of the caucus and engagement from joe manchin working hard to lay out a vision of how we protect these fundamental values in our constitution, the right to vote, the ability to keep billionaires from buying elections, the ability to keep politicians from gerrymandering districts to attack equal representation, how to make sure there aren't conflicts of interest so public servants serve the public, four core values in this legislation important to every american. it's why this bill has such bipartisan support across the country everywhere except in the senate. >> i'm struck by the very high levels of support in public polling for the legislation both as a whole and when you break it down into constituent parts. our previous guest was talking about how it was getting 70% or
80% across the country. nowhere is it unpopular. the stark contrast with it having zero republican support. no republican senator saying he is or she is going to vote for it or potentially vote for a motion to debate it. does that surprise you since you first introduced this back in march that it hasn't picked up any republican support? >> it hasn't surprised me too much in that we've seen this mitch mcconnell play before. it's kind of that split between principle and power politics. on the principles, republicans across the country supermajority embrace this. they believe in this. they believe in defending the ballot box. they defendant in billionaires not buying elections. but in the senate, mitch mcconnell is all about winning the next election. and the next election will be funded by dark money, so he wants to defend dark money. he wants to have gerrymandering in place so the house is more likely to be a republican house rather than a democratic-controlled house.
and he certainly wants to get his members elected. and that means putting obstructions and barriers in the way of folks who tend to vote democratic. black americans, communities of color, maybe american tribes and college students. and this really is horrific. this is pre-1965. this is undermining the most fundamental vision of citizens participating in their democracy. so, it is shameful. and i would hope that a number of my republican colleagues would like to vote to say, yes, we should have this bill on the floor. but they're facing the intense power politics of mitch mcconnell and they're wilting under that pressure. >> senator jeff merkley, the lead sponsor of the for the people act getting that first key vote tomorrow afternoon in the senate. good luck, sir. we would love to have you back once we see what happens in that important vote. thank you. >> thank you very much,rachel. >> we've got more ahead. stay with us. much,rachel
>> we've got more ahead. stay with us l working. in the kind of work that i do, you are surrounded by people who are all younger than you. i had to get help somewhere along the line to stay competitive. i discovered prevagen. i started taking it and after a period of time, my memory improved. it was a game-changer for me. prevagen. healthier brain. better life. this is power. so's this. you recognize it. but for the corporate special interests and billionaires buying our elections, dark money is power. billions spent manipulating elections. gerrymandering partisan congressional districts. and restricting our freedom to vote. exactly why we need the for the people act--h.r. 1. to finally ban dark money. ensure fair congressional districts. and protect our freedom to vote. because the real power is you. and it's time for the people to win.
trelegy for copd.
♪ birds flyin' high, you know how i feel. ♪ ♪ breeze drifting on by you know how i feel. ♪ ♪ it's a new dawn... ♪ if you've been taking copd sitting down, it's time to make a stand. start a new day with trelegy. no once-daily copd medicine has the power to treat copd in as many ways as trelegy. with three medicines in one inhaler, trelegy helps people breathe easier and improves lung function. it also helps prevent future flare-ups. trelegy won't replace a rescue inhaler for sudden breathing problems. tell your doctor if you have a heart condition or high blood pressure before taking it. do not take trelegy more than prescribed. trelegy may increase your risk of thrush, pneumonia, and osteoporosis. call your doctor if worsened breathing, chest pain, mouth or tongue swelling, problems urinating, vision changes, or eye pain occur. take a stand and start a new day with trelegy. ask your doctor about once-daily trelegy. and save at trelegy.com.
(computer beeps) ask your doctor about once-daily treleg(shaq) magenta? i hate cartridges. not magenta, not magenta. i'm not going back to the store. magenta! cartridges are so... (buzzer) (vo) the epson ecotank. no more cartridges! it comes with an incredible amount of ink that can save you a lot of frustration. ♪♪ the epson ecotank. just fill and chill.
since april, with a brief break to accommodate some high school graduations, a one-man band pro trump conspiracy theory promoting company called cyber ninjas has been pawing through ballots. today though, the intrepid reporter jen got word that the cyber ninjas expect to be done this week. they expect to be done by thursday. the company says they have come to the end of their ridiculous slip shod counting method for the most of the 2.1 million ballots they were given access to. these are the things they've been spinning on different colors of lazy susans. right now they're taking pictures of all the ballots for whatever reason. they say they'll be done with that by thursday as well.
so all the stuff happening on the floor of the convention center, this arena in arizona will stop. then at some point, cyber ninjas, a one-man band, will present its, their, his report of, you know, all the spinning lazy susans and all the ballot pictures that tell us whether the election was legit or not. guess what they'll say. today a spokesman said to expect the cyber ninja's arizona election report in late july or early august. remember, august is now when former president donald trump is saying he will be reinstated in the presidency. i'm sure that's just coincidental timing, right? meanwhile in the great state of georgia, there is a court case we've been keeping an eye on adjacent to this of the it is about absentee ballots in fulton, georgia, in the 2020 election. trump lost georgia by about 12,000 votes. fulton includes most of the city of atlanta. that's where democratic votes come from and it has been the
focus of election fraud fantasy for months now. there are reports that it shouldn't count and they can figure out a way to say. that last month a judge agreed that these conspiracy theory promoting trump supporters should get to have a look at absentee ballots from fulton county. he ordered that they be allowed to look at the images of the ballots and even to inexpect the original ballots. unlike alabama, they would not be allowed to just hand the ballots over. that was the initial ruling. today the judge held a hearing in which election officials tried to get him to dismiss the case before it goes any further. the judge heard arguments for about three hours. he did not rule. he said he needs time to think about it but will rule as quickly as possible. we're watching this because maybe we'll hear that he shut the door completely on republican fantasies trying to overturn the 2020 election in georgia already. or maybe he will let them have
their so-called audit of them and the cyber ninja people will move over there, too. we shall see. watch this space. when heartburn takes you by surprise. fight back fast, with new tums naturals. free from artificial flavors and dyes. tonight...i'll be eating crab cakes with spicy aioli. (doorbell rings) thank you. can we be besties, simone biles? i guess? yessss! should we dismount now? over the years, mercedes-benz has patented thousands of safety innovations. crash-tested so many cars we've stopped counting. and built our most punishing test facility yet, in our effort to build the world's safest cars. we've created crumple zones and autonomous braking. active lane keeping assist and blind spot assist. we've introduced airbags, side curtain airbags, and now the first-ever rear-mounted front-impact airbags.
all in the hope that you never need any of it. come here! i've got big news! now, nurtec odt can not only stop a migraine it can prevent a migraine as well. nurtec is the first and only option proven to treat and prevent migraines with one medication. onederful. one quick dissolve tablet can start fast and last. don't take if allergic to nurtec. the most common side effects were nausea,
stomach pain, and indigestion. with nurtec, i treat migraine my way. what's your way? ask your doctor about nurtec to find out! this is the greatest idea you'll ever hear. okay, it's an app that compares hundreds of travel sites for hotels and cars and vacation rentals like kayak does for flights. so it's kayak. yeah, like kayak. why don't you just call it kayak. i'm calling it... canoe. compare hundreds of travel sites for thousands of trips. kayak. search one and done.

that is going to do it for us tonight on this, the longest day of the year. i'll head straight out of the studio and see if it is still light enough to go fishing. i'll see you this time tomorrow night. now it's time for the last word with lawrence o'donal. >> while you were working, senator sinema has published a piece not just supporting the 60-vote but doing so in language much stronger than joe manchin has ever said about it actually. she seems as locked in as anyone on this.