that great report. thanks for making time. that's "all in" on this friday night. "therachelmaddowshow" starts now. good evening,rachel. >> thank you my friend, much appreciated.   thanks for joining us this hour, a busy friday and friday night. new york governor andrew cuomo in water that appears to be getting deeper and hotter all the time. long investigative piece by rebecca traister in "new yorker" today, reporting on litany of women who worked for him say he's behaved inappropriately in the workplace. both democratic senators from new york, chuck schumer and kirsten gillibrand have called for cuomo to resign.
join a majority of the overall delegation from new york calling for cuomo to step down. front page of huffington post tonight, it's over. photo is odd series of reuters photographs taken at governor's mansion from a distance. seen walking around talking on cell phone wearing a blanket. also in company of really amazing looking good dog. why the governor is wearing a blanket, nobody knows. news of senator schumer and senator gillibrand joining the pile on and demanding cuomo's resignation is front page news around the country. cuomo himself is showing no signs of heeding demands for his resignation. if he refuses to resign, only way he can be removed from office against his will before
next election is by impeachment. as we reported last night, democrats in state legislature in new york have announced opening of impeachment inquiry targeting cuomo yesterday. if they impeach in the assembly, will be going on trial in new york senate where a majority of senators have called on him to resign. seems likely would be convicted and removed from office if the assembly impeaches him. but that process is just starting. lots of calls tonight that this news about senator schumer and gillibrand even ins it's over for governor cuomo already. he seems to disagree. we'll let you know if the story develops further over the course of the night. seems like fair bet it will and we'll let you know. tonight the "washington post" has reported that trump national security advisor, qanon conspiracy theory hero, former u.s. army general who called on
trump to declare martial law and force rerunning of the election so joe biden wouldn't win this time, tonight the "washington post" is reporting on interesting new news involving disgraced trump national security adviser mike flynn. twice pled guilty in federal court to lying to the fbi about his secret communications with the russian government. before he left office, president trump pardoned mike flynn for those crimes. but general flynn may be in a new bucket of trouble. that a trump pardon and intervention from attorney general william barr at the justice department can't save him from this time. gunked up with so much conspiracy theories and smoke and mirrors from the right, it's easy to forget what went wrong for first national security
adviser, it emerged he had been acting as secret unregistered foreign agent for another country. for turkish, had been on the turkish government's payroll. you can't do that and be national security adviser in the united states. and can't take money from another foreign country like that as recently retired senior military officer. around the time that flynn became national security adviser, emerged he had been a foreign agent for turkey and taken secret payments, tens of thousands of dollars from the russian government without declaring them to the pentagon as he required to do as recently retired flag officer. pentagon started investigation into general flynn when this came to light, around the time he became trump's national security adviser. only when flynn was fired from white house and criminally charged for lying to investigations about secret
contacts with the russian government that internal investigation got put on hold. not unusual, federal case tends to put on ice any other investigation into the same conduct. now, surprise, when president trump pardoned mike flynn for his federal crimes in november or last fall, one of the surprise consequences of that pardon is that it unfroze what had been that pentagon investigation into mike flynn secretly and potentially illegally acting as agent of foreign countries and take secret payments from our foreign adversaries. when flynn got pardoned, there was no more reason to defer that investigation into the federal criminal case, that's over thanks to the pardon. pardon allowed internal investigation at pentagon to start back up. which it did.
now know the report on flynn is complete, from the "washington post" tonight, quote, the defense department's internal watchdog has concluded a long delayed investigation into michael flynn, focuses on accepting money from russian and turkish interests before joining the trump administration, a potential violation of the constitution's emoluments clause. prohibited from accepting money or gifts from foreign governments. opened in april 2017, put on hold amid a broader scandal that included a criminal investigation by the justice department. flynn was pardoned last november by trump. after the pardon, justice department gave approval for the inspector general's office to resume its flynn investigation.
watchdog's office closed its investigation one week after the biden administration took office and forded findings to the u.s. army. so this has never been reported before tonight, but mike flynn, hero of the far right, allegedly working as secret foreign agent and taking secret payments from foreign adversary, not something retired generals are supposed to do, findings of the pentagon review put on ice in 2017, thawed out and started up in november when trump pardoned the guy without thinking this might be a consequence of it, turns out pentagon had it done and ready to be handed to army for action within a week of biden being sworn in. so what is the pentagon going to do with the results of this report?
"post" tonight, received the flynn case for review, we not not have additional information for you at this time. trump people and qanon conspiracy theory crazy people have turned mike flynn into this bizarre comic book figure since his disgrace along these lines. it's a comic book portrayal of himself he apparently believes in. mike flynn has really taken a weird fake oath, a pledge to the qanon conspiracy theory on camera and posted it online, posted video of himself taking the qanon pledge along with members of his family. mike flynn really did go on tv before the january 6th attack to call on president trump to order a military takeover of the country so he could hold on to power even though biden won the election. he was one of the right-wing
conspiracy figures demanding all the trump people had to be at capitol january 6th to stop the election from being certified and keep trump in power. now investigative findings about him illegally taking secret payments from russia and potentially being a secret foreign agent of another country. we'll presumably hear from them soon. i'm sure will be no drama about that at all. that story just breaking at "washington post." we have not obtained report of the internal investigation from the pentagon inspector general. as far as i can tell nobody has obtained the report but army is reviewing it. we'll keep you posted as story develops tonight as well.   further breaking news from ryan riley at huffington post, first to report on a court that
produced this disturbing photo. turn to the left and read that there, this is the badge of a d.c. metropolitan police officer, an officer at capitol in attack on january 6th, dragged into the crowd, beaten unconscious, tased and hospitalized for his injuries. that's his badge. covered in mud in a ziplock, fbi notation there. reason we've got this photo is fbi has just recovered from a backyard in buffalo, new york, this badge. it was buried there by one of the capitol attackers who ripped that badge off the officer in capitol attack and took it home as some kind of trophy and then buried it. january 6th attack we all saw unfold live on tv that day. afterwards we started to see even more graphic detail about what had a happened, security
footage, uploaded social media footage, lot of it by attackers themselves. police body cam footage of what had happened. lot of the scariest footage we saw for the first time to devastating effect at impeachment trial of president trump in the senate. you might remember. but for all we've seen, some of the most unforgettable footage i saw, unforgettable to me at least, was not footage of violence that day. one of the things i have found hardest to get out of my mind in all the footage of the attack is straight to camera explanation from individual police officer off the attack, after he had been injured in the attack, explaining what he had been through, what had happened to him. >> i was just trying to fight as best i could, i remember guys
were stripping me of gear, these rioters pulling my badge off my chest, ripped my radio off of my vest. started pulling ammunition magazines from their holder on high belt. then some guy started getting a hold of my gun, and they were screaming out -- you know, kill him with his own gun. at that point, you know it was just like self-preservation. how do i survive this situation? and i thought about using deadly force, i thought about shooting people. and then i just came to the conclusion that if i was to do that, i might get a few but not going to take everybody and they'll probably take my gun away from me, and that would definitely give them the justification they were looking for to kill me if they hadn't
already made that up in their minds. other option i thought of was to try to appeal to somebody's humanity. i remember yelling out that i have kids. it seemed to work. some people in the crowd started to encircle me and offer me some level of protection. and they gave -- that provided me with enough time or other officers, specifically my partner jimmy albright, enough time to get to me and get me the hell out of there and back to the west front of the capitol. lot of people have asked me my thoughts on the individuals in the crowd that -- you know that helped me or tried to offer some assistance, and i think kind of the conclusion i've come to is, thank you? but [ bleep ] you for being there. >> d.c. metropolitan police
officer michael fanone was not in the end shot by his service pistol by the mob, although the mob nearly got the pistol off him. and corroboration of his claims that they did want to kill him with his own gun as they fought to get that gun out of his holster. shot him with a taser multiple times, he suffered a mild heart attack, was hospitalized. today in buffalo, new york, police arrested a man who took part in that attack on officer fanone. man who allegedly fired taser into his neck is still at large. riley and cook at huffington post reported on online investigators tracking that man down from social media postings and he's been publicly
identified but for some reason not arrested. buffalo, new york, they did arrest the man who officers say is the one who ripped officer fanone's radio off him and ripped his badge off his vest while the mob beat and tased him and knocked him unconscious and he was hospitalized. man who ripped the badge and radio off officer fanone apparently took the badge home as trophy, buried it in his yard. fbi dug it up and got him today. brought him to court today. found badge in his yard, yet the magistrate judge who oversaw the hearing ordered the man released on his own recognizance. no worries, only charged with
multiple violent felonies and we have the trophy that you ripped off the officer that you buried in your yard but you know what, go home. probably have to clean up your yard some. prosecutors are appealing the judge's order to have released him tonight. sounds like might be a hearing tuesday. but as of tonight he's out and home. same day he was arrested. some of these cases are inexplicable in way they're handled. or otherwise mind blowing. politico reported there are so many cases that the office in d.c. is fairly overwhelmed. 80% of the caseload is related to d.c. capitol attack now. u.s. attorneys offices are asked to come in from around the country to take on some of the workload. amazing case in florida did result in guy held in custody
despite best efforts to get out under fairly amazing circumstances. i don't know why it didn't get more national attention this week. it's crazy. one of the few attackers at the capitol who was arrested that day, january 6th, although police later let him go, had go out and find him a week later and rearrested him for being part of a crowd that prosecutors said was attacking police officers, including throwing unknown substances at the officers. michael kursio was back in court in florida this week. where he's arrested and held, asking the judge in his case to let him out of jail, let him go home and await trial at home instead of staying in jail. one awkward point of discussion with the judge about that request is that this guy, capitol attacker, charged with assaulting officers among other
things, did have to acknowledge in court he's a convicted felon, did serve eight years in prison for attempted murder, and yes, he is a longtime member in good standing of a large white supremacist prison gang in florida. still judge, can i be trusted to be released on my own recognizance while i await trial for multiple charges for attacking police as part of pro-trump mob trying to seize the capitol, what's the problem? he didn't get out but guy with officer fanone's badge buried in his yard did get out today, and guy credibly accused of firing a taser in fanone's neck hasn't even been picked up yet. snapshot of where things are
going. merrick garland, good luck, keep eye out for the white supremacist prison gang members among the capitol attackers. wisconsin senator ron johnson tonight talking about why he wasn't afraid at all during the attack because he could tell by looking at them they were all good people who would never break the law. >> i'm also criticized because i made the comment on january 6th i never felt threatened. because i didn't. mainly because i knew that even though those thousands of people that were marched into the capitol were trying to pressure people like me to vote the way they wanted me to vote, i knew they love this country, truly respect law enforcement, would never do anything to break a law, so i wasn't concerned. had the tables been turned, joe, this gets me in trouble, had president trump won the election and tens of thousands of black lives matter and antifa
protesters, i might have been a little concerned. >> i might have been a little concerned. if they had been black, that would have been one thing, but these were white men who were convicted felons and members of large white supremacist prison gangs assaulting the officers and trying to kill the vice president. but look how white, how can i feel scared? have you seen how white these men were? if they had been black -- god bless you, senator ron johnson. this was senator rick scott last night at mar-a-lago, doing the ring kissing thing with former president trump, they're all doing that now, one after the other. honestly, i mean big picture, look at what's going on right now, supposedly a two major party democracy, and democrats in rose garden celebrating $1.9
trillion covid relief effort, a record 2.92 millions of doses of vaccine administered today, americans tonight starting to see pending payments from the government for covid relief in bank accounts tonight, nancy pelosi announcing that democrats are starting work on massive infrastructure bill coming up next. in the state of georgia, which we're going to talk about tonight, big business is being drafted into effort to stop republican efforts to roll back voting rights, stand with democrats as they try to stop republicans from cracking down on democratic rights. that's what's going on on one side of our two major party political system. on the other side, republican senators are one after another making pilgrimages to mar-a-lago to go see former president trump. did you ever see "animal house"?
1978, one of the great american comedies, john belushi, dan aykroyd. even if you haven't seen it, there's a disturbing, iconic, memorable scene, where they're hazing new recruits for the frat, got a paddle and whaling away hitting this guy, every time, thank you sir may i have another, excruciating scene, very memorable right? it was a week ago tonight that president trump sent a cease and desist letter to the republican telling them they were no longer allowed to use his name or likeness in any materials. a week ago. republican party responded by sending a letter saying you're a public figure, we can use the name and likeness of any public figure, that letter doesn't mean anything to us. former president responded to
that telling all his followers stop giving support and money to republican party, only to him at his donald trump website. that was monday. monday night, the republican party responded by acting real tough -- no, by instead deciding okay, move the next republican party, big spring meeting, to mar-a-lago, where the party will have to pay trump cold hard cash for the privilege of using his resort. thank you sir, may we have another? that's how they responded to threat. they tried to push back, he pushed harder, oh, you want money, you're mad, can we pay you? thank you sir, may we have another? following day, did that calm him down, no. trump responded with again another public statement quadrupling down telling his people once again do not give
money or support to terrible republicans who are terrible, only to me, me at my website, not the republicans, do not support them, only me, starve them, pay me. how did the republican party respond? they responded to that the next day on wednesday by literally putting out a statement expressing the party's gratitude to donald trump for all of his support. thank you sir, may we have another? i mean this is some masochistic stuff right here. do you guys have a safe word? might want to employ at some point. going to hear the republican party in the corner going avocado. i mean -- what does he have to do to get you to not give him more of what he wants? to stop praising him, not giving him more of your money? what does he have to do?
meaner he gets, bigger the swings and more insulting he gets toward you, the more you praise him and thank him. there's a name for this. but it's incredible time. don't lose sight of this. there are more than 300 members of the pro-trump capitol riot, people part of that attack, who have been charged now in federal court for attacking the u.s. government violently to try to keep donald trump in power. meanwhile the democrats are running the table in washington with control of the white house, control of the house of representatives, control of the senate, just passed most important legislation in more than a generation. latest polling shows 75% public support, including majority of republican voters and republicans are coping with this reality by making individual pilgrimages, one after other to
mar-a-lago to pledge loyalty and beg for trump's mercy and favor while he insults them, robs them blind and talks smack about them every chance he gets. this is the lesson they learned after all this time, just feed him and feed him and feed him and maybe he'll stop being so mean. keep him at center of everything you do, just devote more energy to trying to get him to love you and support you and help you, i'm sure ultimately it will work out great, i'm sure he'll change, he'll come around. definitely stay focused on him, very important for you guys, just keep going. thank you, sir, may i have another? it's incredible.   more to come tonight, stay with us. s early tomorrow. and it's a long flight too. once we get there, we will need... buttercup! ♪
ordinary tissues burn when theo blows. so dad bought puffs plus lotion, and rescued his nose. with up to 50% more lotion puffs bring soothing softness and relief. a nose in need deserves puffs indeed. ah, a package! you know what this human ordered? a backache. consider pain, delivered. pain says you can't. advil says you can.
out great, i'm sure he'll out great, i'm sure he'll
when you switch to xfinity mobile, you're choosing to get connected to the most reliable network nationwide, now with 5g included. discover how to save up to $300 a year with shared data starting at $15 a month, or get the lowest price for one line of unlimited. come into your local xfinity store to make the most of your mobile experience. you can shop the latest phones, bring your own device, or trade in for extra savings. stop in or book an appointment to shop safely with peace of mind at your local xfinity store.
here's what people in georgia saw this morning when
they opened local paper. dramatic, striking, full-page ad-in the constitution. late john lewis facing off with state troopers on edmund pettus bridge in selma, bloody sunday, led to voting rights act, but the georgia legislature recently passed measures as part of targeted attack against black voters but will impact all voters. we believe the business community has both a responsibility and opportunity to protect democracy and help stop the legislation from becoming law. and urges anybody reading this to contact the georgia-based
corporations headquartered in our state and let them know we expect them to support georgia voters as we support them. contact information for all the companies, aflac, coca-cola, home depot, ups. republicans in the georgia legislature have passed no fewer than a dozen voter suppression bills, largest roll back in voter rights since jim crow. limit everything, increase voter i.d. requirements and specifically target preelection voting on sundays because that is disproportionately used by african-americans, that's the day that black churches organize souls to the polls events where parishioners travel to polls together after services.
this is interesting decision, voting rights advocates targeting the big businesses, asking the big american companies if they want the state where they're headquartered to be the new national capital of the most sweeping contraction of ballot since reconstruction? will the industry wade into this fight? how much could that change things? what other pressure points are there as the clock ticks down on the voting bills in great state of georgia? joining us now, latasha brown, cofounder of black voters matter, one of the organizations in the constitution today. thanks for making the time. >> thanks for having me,rachel. >> help me understand the strategic thinking here, decision to engage the biggest of big businesses in georgia to get them on your side in this. >> corporations have a
responsibility, they have a responsibility, we work there, serve on boards, are consumers. black people in state of georgia consume $106 billion are part of the economy. we think they have a simple responsibility. this is an attack on black voters, but also on democracy. we're saying this is a prime opportunity. top name like coca-cola ran campaigns saying they were standing with black lives matter movement around racial equity and justice. we're saying this is prime opportunity to stand up, use leverage power and stop the deals to roll back voting access up to reconstruction. we're calling them to question, and should be opportune time for them to stand up, use their power and stand for what they know is the right thing to do. >> and how open are their doors as you're starting to push on
them now? lot of these corporations have been trying to have a public face that is progressive, inclusive, identifies with movements for justice, particularly around racial justice. does that mean they're more receptive to kind of message and pressure? are they hearing you? >> no, we think they need to respond much stronger. been a couple of comments, statements, that's not enough. we need to see action. we know they have political leverage to really put pressure. look at these bills, senate bill passed on monday, ironically the same day we were celebrating the 56th anniversary and commemoration of bloody sunday, when you look at it, passed by one vote. we know that coca-cola and aflac and ups and southern companies have a tremendous amount of
political access and power, we're not seeing the action and pressure we think we need to see, including the georgia chamber of commerce to say this is not going to happen in our state because ultimately democracy is good for business. >> it's interesting to hear you push it down that many levels in terms of what you want to see from them. i do think we can see they want the public relations credit for being on the right side of issues like this, but as you point out, just saying you're on one side isn't enough, in a fight like this that's going to be lost unless something changes in momentum. you think the businesses could become active participants in the process, could bring lobbying strength, skill and money to bear to put political pressure here. they're already willing to pay lip service but in terms of doing the work to stop the bills, you're not getting anything yet, is that fair? >> absolutely,rachel.
thank about the bathroom bill in north carolina, it was because of corporate pressure that bill was killed. even abortion bill proposed a few years ago in georgia, corporate pressure along with community organizing that killed that bill. we're saying we live in a community together, we are consumers and know this is right thing to do, all predicated on big lie that trump told, but we're seeing this punitive efforts for black voters for using civic responsibility. we believe that corporations also have a responsibility for staying with the communities that support them. just as we support them, expect them to support us. not good enough to watch a commercial, they want us to buy a coke. we're saying same thing, not just good enough to say a statement, use the full political power and leverage and stand strong against what you
know are racism and antidemocratic bills. >> latosha brown, it's honor to have you with us, thank you for helping us understand. as the campaign evolves next days and weeks, keep us apprised. would love to have you back and track how this develops in the state. >> thank you. thank you for having me.   much more ahead tonight, stay with us. ay with us ♪♪ comfort in the extreme. the lincoln family of luxury suvs. i'm a performer. comfort in the extreme. always have been. and always will be. never letting anything get in my way. not the doubts, distractions, or voice in my head. and certainly not arthritis. voltaren provides powerful arthritis pain relief to help me keep moving.
and it can help you too. feel the joy of movement with voltaren. our kids aren't so great at hiding. gee, i wonder where the kids are? but we found out their clothes hide a lot. turns out we can't even see 70% of the dirt that's trapped in their clothes. which concerned us, especially with their sensitive skin. that's why we always look for new tide hygienic clean free. it goes deep into fabrics, to remove the visible and invisible dirt. and, it's designed for sensitive skin. hey! what's that? it's got to be tide hygienic clean free. why choose proven quality sleep from sleep number?
because a good night's rest is where muscles recover, and our minds are restored. the new sleep number 360 smart bed is temperature balancing. and it helps keep you asleep by sensing your movement and automatically adjusts to keep you both effortlessly comfortable. perfect for those relaxing weekends. proven quality sleep, is life-changing sleep. only from sleep number. ♪ hey now, you're an all-star, get your game on, go play ♪ ♪ hey now, you're a rock star, get theshowon, get paid ♪ ♪ and all that glitters is gold ♪ get 5 boneless wings for $1 with any handcrafted burger. only at applebee's.
♪♪ ♪♪ comfort in the extreme. the lincoln family of luxury suvs.
to the members of the house and senate, thanks for making this happen. what you shepherded through the congress not only meets the moment, it does even more, it's historical and they call it transformational. >> joe biden in the rose garden with democratic lawmakers, talking about the historic nature of the huge covid relief bill that is now law. people are starting to get pending payments in their bank
accounts tonight for relief funds going out. $1,400 per person, 85% of households qualify. 159 million households about to receive a check for $1,400 at least, 159 million households qualify. if you use direct deposit to file taxes, bank account is on file with the irs, could see it as soon as this weekend. pending payments are already there now for some people. 9 in 10 families with children will start seeing more money in bank accounts every month as soon as this summer. it is remarkable that congress managed to pass this bill with this much transformative stuff in it given the razor thin majority in the house and senate. described as ambitious opening
bid, axios predicted it would be winnowed down in congress. way it was talked about at start, opening bid, sure to be hacked away and winnowed down in lawmaking process in congress. but aside from a few tweaks, really didn't happen. for the most part the bill on biden's desk looked like one he sent to congress. asked for incredibly progressive, ambitious, $1.9 trillion plan, and that's what he got, and now it's law. how did that happen? best window we have had on thisshowduring the course of the 50 days where this thing was fought over in congress, over the course of that fight, best window we've had on thisshowinto who was fighting for what, how different factions and individuals inside the process were fighting to keep the bill intact, fighting to keep it from
getting watered down too much, was from a progressive organizer we've talked to number of times over the years, ezra levin, cofounder of grassroots indivisible, who tipped off us early on to how the progressive caucus in the house was holding together and using votes as bloc in way they'd never done before to keep the bill as progressive as possible and keeps stuff that progressives most wanted even as republicans and conservative democrats pushed against it. overall the strategy appears to have worked and democrats appear to have passed something more processive and less watered down than almost any observer thought was possible. what else do we need to understand about how that happened? and could that happen again or was this only time that could work? joining us now, our tipster, ezra levin, cofounder of
indivisible. i'm sure it weirds you out for me to credit you that way but you saw into this process way not many did. >> just happy to be with you this friday night, wouldn't spend a friday night any differently. >> let me ask you what you think people should understand about how the sausage is made. beltway press, much as i love them, really focused on what republicans wanted and what conservative democrats whinged about, and all the things that didn't win the day in terms of the bill. what really did make a difference in the bill? what do we have to understand about how the process worked? >> top level headline, you said in the opening, give credit to president biden, house and senate leadership, a bold $1.9
trillion progressive proposal was ultimately signed. below the headline, exciting thing happening, representative chair of the caucus started transforming it in last several months. late last year adopted new rules to allow them to whip votes and hold the line. if you water this down, we will not accept it. so yes, they pushed as hard as they could for a progressive bill through the house of representatives and they got it passed. but processive bills pass the house of representatives all the time to either die or be watered down in senate. key thing that happened behind the scenes that's exciting, as more conservative senate, including conservative democrats, were looking for ways to water it down, wanted to take
more chunks out but were afraid that the progressive caucus led by representative jayapal will refuse to accept the changes and pass the bill. as result of that, $1.9 trillion bill pass the house, goes to senate, some changes around the edges are made, but ultimately they say we've got to pass this $1.9 trillion version in order for it to become law, darn the progressives in the house, i guess we'll do that. ultimately that's the bill that joe biden signs into law. >> is this one neat trick repicable. created a credible threat. does that work a second time? how does the fact that they may
not be able to pass much more legislation with 50 democratic votes in the senate, how does that factor in ezra? >> i'm hopeful, got to say i'm hopeful. what you want to see happening for this to play out again is series of progressive legislations to start passing the house. and lo and behold what do we see? lgbt rights being protected, union organizing protection in legislation, top of the list heard from mark elias and stacy brown and importance of for the people act, all the pro-democracy priorities are passing the house. yes, ultimately going to go to the senate and going to come up against a senate filibuster by
mitch mcconnell, but i believe based on what we're seeing now, same kind of pressure applied to american rescue plan can be applied to congress to break through the filibuster and get this wildly popular legislation done. reason i believe why i believe s because all of the democrats in the house and the senate are experiencing this great legislative buy. they just passed this incredible piece of legislation and the world is coming at them and saying, oh, my gosh, this is incredible. i didn't know congress could do work like this, but they did. so we need to fuel that. if you have got a member of congress who voted for this piece of legislation, your job, job number one is calling them and letting them know, hey, you did a good thing. you don't get that many calls like that. be unique as a constituent and call your representative or senator and let them know they did good. the second thing for us and folks all across the country that are worried about these
attacks on democracy, we have to pass the we the people act. i advise people if you are interested in that fight go to savedemocracy.org. figure out a way to get involved locally. time is limited. it is urgent. and we proved that success is possible if we all throw in for it. >> the co-founder of indivisible, thank you for joining us. >> any time,rachel. >> we'll be right back. >> we'llk . and took risks. big risks. bring your family history to life, like never before. get started for free at ancestry.com i felt awful because of my psoriasis. i was covered from head to toe with it. it really hurt. then i started cosentyx. okay, thanks... that was four years ago. how are you? see me. cosentyx works fast to give you
clear skin that can last. real people with psoriasis look and feel better with cosentyx. don't use if you're allergic to cosentyx. before starting, get checked for tuberculosis. an increased risk of infections and lowered ability to fight them may occur. tell your doctor about an infection or symptoms, if your inflammatory bowel disease symptoms develop or worsen, or if you've had a vaccine or plan to. serious allergic reactions may occur. i look and feel better. ask your dermatologist if cosentyx could help you move past the pain of psoriasis. to support local restaurants, we've been to every city, including boise... ...and even bakersfield. yeah, we're exhausted. whew! so, tonight... i'll be eating the gyro quesadilla from...al quick stop...in... hyde park. (doorbell) excellent. and, tonight... i'll be eating the chicken pot pie from...founding farmers...in... foggy bottom. (doorbell) (giggle) oh, they're excellent. i had so many beignets i thought i was going to hurl. do ya think they bought it? oh yeah.
do ya think they bought it? ever notice how stiff clothes can feel rough on your skin? for softer clothes that are gentle on your skin, try downy free & gentle. downy will soften your clothes without dyes or perfumes. the towel washed with downy is softer, and gentler on your skin. try downy free & gentle. one of the worst things about a cold sore is how it can make you feel. but, when used at the first sign, abreva can get you back to being you in just 2 and a half days. be kinder to yourself and tougher on your cold sores.
use a single hr software? nope. we use 11. eleven. why do an expense report from your phone when you can do it from a machine that jams? i just emailed my wife's social security number to the entire company instead of hr, so... please come back. how hard is your business software working for you? with paycom, employees enter and manage their own hr data in one easy-to-use software. visit paycom.com for a free demo. hon? first off, we love each other...
osha is the part of the government in charge of making policies to make sure that you are safe at work. when president biden took office, he said osha needed to study whether we needed new rules to keep people safe from covid at work, specifically whether there should be a new rule requiring americans to wear masks when they are at work.
the president gave osha until march 15th to make a decision on that. march 15th is monday. this is worth watching because this may mean that the federal government could announce a workplace rule on monday, an enforceable rule that in effect would be a national requirement for masks in the workplace. osha is empowered to levy fines againstployers who don't follow their rules. right now 16 states in the country don't have a mask mandate. there are thousands of businesses all over the country that don't require masks. but if we see a new rule on this from osha early next week, that will essentially be a freight train barrelling down on us between conflict from the federal government and all these states that told people they can stop wearing masks. it is a sleeper issue. it is potentially a big deal. the new rule is expected no later than monday. watch this space. monday. watch this space
and in an emergency, they need a network that puts them first. that connects them to technology, to each other, and to other agencies. that's why at&t built firstnet with and for first responders
the emergency response network authorized by congress. firstnet. because putting them first is our job.

very important note. earlier in theshow, i was talking about "animal house," and i said dan akroid was in "animal house" with john belushi. i'm very sorry. that will do it for us t