wrote a few books. wrote a essay for the new yorker wrote it this summer. it's about how we're at where we're on the internet on the internet we're always famous check it out in the new yorker.com. hope you like it. that is all in for this week. therachelmaddowshowstarts now. >> i loved your piece in the new yorker chris, the bit you wrote we talked about befores with which is thousands and thousands of flattering and complementary and kind words will flow through you. but something on the other side, something critical, even mildly critical will stick to you for life. and we should think about that in a way that we can extrapolate to the ways we live on the internet now and everybody having those feelings. it's very insightful and unsettling. >> thank you very much,rachel. i appreciate if. >> fantastic you're amazing have a great weekend my friend thank you. >> thank you. >> thanks to you at home.
happy friday. are you familiar with the concept of an own goal like two teams playing against each other. but when you own goal that means you accidentally scored a goal against yourself. in the beautiful game of soccer the phenomenon of an own goal happens infrequently. but it does happen. it sometimes happens in ways quite beautiful. but they're always dramatic and always traumatic to the people involved. if this isn't ringing a bell if you don't know what i'm scribe describing even if you never watched a soccer match. just watch. you'll understand instantly what i mean. >> pierre, give away. la france, two centerbacks look
out. what a mistake. can you believe that happened? oh, my word. >> oh, my word! the goalkeeper is very relaxed gently passed the ball which the member of his own team own defender chill, relaxed just going to catch that trap that ball and then clear it right back out to his own offense. and he kind of bobbles it at first and bobbles again. and then, own goal! here is one more. in this one you can't -- you can't blame the goalkeeper as much. you can only blame the goalkeeper in this one for not accounting for how windy it was that day. now in this one it's the -- the team wearing the green jerseys trying to score against the goalkeeper in the black shirt. gets the ball. but then watch. see how windy it is there. he goes to kick the ball to
clear it downfield and the wind blows it back. and he can't defend against the ball he kicked and went up into the wind and came back at him. own goal. own goal. sad infuriating, hilarious, in equal measure. >> right in this country we had a own goem. after democrat joe biden won the state of wisconsin and the presidential election, the defeated incumbent now former president, donald trump, complained and complained and complained about sconce. wisconsin is one of the states where he said he was sure he had won it. it must have been stolen from him somehow. and actually, you know, he had proof that it was wisconsin was stolen he wouldshoweverybody the proof and wouldn't they be sorry. what was different about the allegations he made about wisconsin is that the trump campaign put their money where their mouth was in wisconsin.
they put up cash, $3 million in campaign money to pay for a recount of the presidential election vote in wisconsin. in two big democrat counties, milwaukee and dane county, wisconsin where madison is. they paid for it. they hate paying for anything. but they were sure this would be money well aspen. they were sure they won. it was worth it. plunk down the millions. sure it was it would over urn it the results in wisconsin. that was an own goal? what was the results of them paying the money and paying for the recount? quote after the completion of the recount in wisconsin's milwaukee areky county and dane county there was little change in the hundreds of thousands of ballots kavrt in the jurisdictions. in the end joe biden's lead over trump in the state grew by 87 votes. own goal. they forked out, paid all that money because they knew it would
prove that donald trump actually won wisconsin. when what it really actually proved was that trump lost wisconsin by even more than they had thought. own goal in wisconsin. then there was michigan. trump lost by a lot in michigan. but that didn't stop him from once again complaining loud le he must have one within won michigan there must have been some scandal, fraud, must be investigated and exposed. and everybody will know he won it. in the case of michigan republicans in the state legislature were happy to oblige this complaining and the republicans in the state legislature conducted a months long investigation of the election results in michigan. ooh, ooh, in will be it, the republican report will finallyshowthat trump actually won michigan, michigan was stolen from him, and the election results from fake, all fraud, right. weshowthe report conclusions quote this committee found no evidence of widespread or
symptom attic fraud in michigan's prosecution of the 2020 election. beyond that, the republicans in the legislature pronounced themselves appalled at what can only be deduced as willful ignorance by those claiming fraud in michigan. beyond that, michigan republicans in the legislature recommended that the state's attorney general should consider bringing prosecutions against people who were still floging the fake fraud claims about michigan. quote the committee recommends the attorney general consider investigating those who have been utilizing misleading and false information about alleged fraud in the michigan election to raise money or publicity for their own ends. own goal. we're sure this will work. oh, no, the wind's bringing it back. own goal. former president trump reacted to the michigan report by denouncing the republicans involved in the investigation saying the truth will come out.
the rinos will pay. funny thing about that, lawyers acting on behalf of president trump figured that they had another way to out the truth another way around the problem they were having. in michigan they would do it through the courts, release the kraken. and prove the fraud in the michigan election, prove it in court in michigan. that willshoweverybody. everybody will pay who doubted them, the election will be overturned. trump will be shown to have won michigan. he will be shown to have won re-election. release the kraken. that lawsuit was laughed out of court. the judge in the case called it, quote, nothing but speculation and conjecture. but then the kraken sailed up into the wind and eventually crashed back into their own goal. because it wasn't just that the lawsuit got thrown out. the judge eventually ruled not only was the lawsuit baseless but so baseless and disingenuous as to be effectively a fraud on
the court. the judge demanded hearing in which all trump lawyers would appear before her and explain themselves. at the hearing many trump lawyers tried to pretend they hadn't done anything to do with the case. at least one lawyer broke down and cried at the hearing. the judge eventually ruled all trump lawyers involved in the case would be sanctioned for it. sanctioned financially. the exact amount they're going to have to pay is being add jute indicated now. the judge declared that each of the lawyers will be referred for discipline to the bar associations to face potential penalties up to and including disbarment. they may all lose the law licenses for having done that. which is in its way an own goal. right? we'llshowthem. oh, no, they showed us. this keeps happening to them. today it happened in their biggest try yet. in the republican by czaro world months long election results review, the so-called audit in
arizona. another state thattio biden won where president trump complained he must have won. he must have actually won it. former president trump proclaimed the arizona audit would turn up the reel evidence, real proof that he actually won. all these states. and arizona with in audit they'd be first and then all the other states where it looked like he lost they ended up fessing up too after arizona collapsed and all the states would end up admitting he really won. watch arizona will go first. we reported here on theshowlast night that i had seen that our staff had obtained and seen the draft version of the arizona audit report. ahead of the formal release today. and because those results were going to be formally released today we decided not to put those purported results from the draft on television. after all a draft report is something that might be revised bikinisly before the final results came out. we decided given that nobody believes what's going to be in
the report anyway we will wait to see what they finally release. i did tell you last night that what we were seeing in the draft report showed the results of the arizona audit were hilarious. well today we got the final report. released it to the public. and indeed, in fact, it matches with the draft that we saw last night. and hilarity did in fact ensue. after their five months of trying and searching for secret bamboo fibers and using uv lights and putting the ballots on lazy susans and spinning them around and hiring the weierest clown carve q a anon sporesen to slice dice and julian the ballots from the great state of arizona, the end result of the feist monthslong audit is that their count that joe biden's margin of victory in the state increased by 360 votes. trump lost even worst than he
previously believed. which is an own goal. indeed. infuriating to those involved, hilarious to all those watching. just like it is in soccer. but despite the -- the big score here for the arizona audit, the -- the point of the so-called audit, the point of the whole turn in republican politics in fact, is not necessarily to concretely overturn the election results and reinstall donald trump as president, you know, ten months after the election is over. i don't know if that still is their day to day concrete goal. i'm sure it is for some of now that mike lindell the pillow guy saying that trump will be reinstated as president by thanksgiving. okay. maybe some still think that. i think more presently, the goal is to unmoore election results from the fact-based world for
republicans and right-leaning americans. how do you measure success? look at what they're trying to achieve, doing in their work. today in arizona despite concluding on their own terms that by their count trump lost arizona even worse than the certified results say he did, nevertheless, the republican audit folks today spent hours today very excitedly, spent more than three hours excitedly showing powerpoint slides and -- and giving long confusing presentations all aimed at casting aspersions on the election process in arizona they did not produceny actual proof of any fraud in arizona. they did not even produce today any credible claims of fraud in arizona. but they did give hours of ominous sounding confusing testimony about things they didn't understand about the
election process that there by seemed suspicious to them. and they were fact checked and rebutted in realtime by officials in the county that actually carried out the election that's been dragged through the mud all these months. all day long the maricopa county government had to post realtime rebuttals and fact checks in response to all this we don't understand this this claims ominous claims from the audio et people giving the presentation today. the county government posted things like this. you are talking about this server named reweb 1601 yes that server connects to the internet. you were claiming that's a terribly ominous things to the server why does it connect to the internet? that's the server for the website of the maricopa county recorder office. this is not the election system, they explain. we shouldn't interest to explain this. you think you found this terrible smoking gun that something in the recorders office is linked it the internet. it's their website.
websites tend to be linked to the internet. that's not the election. here is the elected county recorder himself having to do the same sort of baseline explanation rebuttal fact checking all day long. he reiterates what the county says yes the server is our web server it connects to the internet also, quote, none of this is the election system. this is the voter registration system. sigh. so irresponsible. this is fantastically irresponsible. and any accidentally proved via their methodology which was insane that trump lost the state worse than we know he did. but we are back to where this started. which is that it is hilarious. and you can't take that away from me. but it is hilarious and infuriating. and it is also corrosive. because as stupid and embarrassing as this whole exercise has been, this is the
other thing that happened today in arizona. these were the folks who showed up to the big audit reveal in the arizona state senate toshowoff guns and militariesque commitment this is not a shockingly poor national guard unit. these are randos, pro trump, pro audit militants who dressed up like this and got their guns. and what looked like working dogs toshowyou they have guns and dogs. and they've been trained. they are ready. what are they ready for? on the eve of the audit release the conservative commentator very conservativive rob kagen somebody with whom i disagree on everything, robert kagan wrote a piece for "the washington post," the most widely read and shared thing on "the washington post"
web page as a conservative. it's titled our constitutional cries sis already here. i want to read you the lead. as hilarious as this was and as much as there was about the failure, this own goal, the embarrassment, step on a rake failure. this is also a very dark day. and this is a dark thing we are going through. i'll read you what kagan said today. he said the united states is heading into its greatest political and constitutional crisis since the civil war with a reasonably chance over the next three to four years of mass violence breakdown of federal authority and warring between red and blue enclarifies. the warning signs may be on steward by the pandemic, global cries and by wishful thinking and denial but about these things there should be no doubt. first, donald trump will be the republican candidate for president in 2024. the hope and expectation that he would fade invisibility and
influence have been delusional. he enjoys mammoth leads in the polls building a war chest at the moment. the democratic ticket looks vulnerable barring health problems he is running. second trump and republican allies are preparing to ensure his victory by whatever means necessary. trump's charges of fraud in the 2020 election are primarily aimed at establishing the predicate to challenge future election results that don't don't go his way. some republican candidates have begun preparing to declare fraud in 2022 as larry elder tried to meekly do to the california recall contest. meanwhile, the amateurish stop the steal efforts of 2020 have given way to an organized nationwide campaign to ensure that trump and his supporters will have the control over state and local election officials that they lacked in 2020. thoets recalcitrant republican foeshlts who saved the country from calamity by refusing to falsely declare fraud or find
more votes for trump, those officials are systematically removed or hounded from office. republican legislatures are giving greater control over the certification. process. as this spring republicans proposed or passed measureses in 16 states shifting election authorities from the purview of the governor, secretary of state, and other executive branch officers to the legislature. one arizona bill flatly states that the legislature may revoke the secretary of state's issuance or certification of a presidential elector certificate of election. by simple majority vote. some state legislatures seek to impose criminal penalties on local election officials alleged to have committed technical infractions, including things like obstructing the view of poll watchers. the stage is thus being set for chaos. imagine weeks of competing mass protests across multiple states as lawmakers from both parties claim victory and charge the other with unconstitutional efforts to take power.
partisans on both sides are likely to be better armed and more willing to inflict harm than they were in 2020. would governors call out the national gourd? would president biden nationalize the guard and place it under his control. send troops in pennsylvania, texas or wisconsin to quell violent protests? displaying federal power in states would be decried as tyranny. biden would find himself where andrew jackson was during the null fix krois resist or abraham ling. making his own judgments about what constitutional powers i does and doesn't have. today's arguments over the filibuster will seem quaint in three years if the american politicsle system enters a crisis for which the constitution avrs offers no remedy. most americans have refused to take this possibility seriously enough to try to prevent it. as as has often been in the case in other countries where fascist leaders arise there would be opponents paralyzed in confusion
and amundsonment at this charismatic thoert attorney following the standard of apiecement with begins with underestimation. the political and intellectual establishments have underestimated trump since he ee mendler and the strength of his hold on followers. underestimated his ability to take control of the republican party and then they underestimated how far he was willing to go to retain power. the fact that he failed to overturn the 2020 election reassured many that the american system remains secure though it could have easily gone the other way. if biden had not been safely ahead in all four states where the vote was close. if trump had been more competent and in control of the decision makers and his administration and in congress and the states. as it was trump came close to bringing off a coup earlier this year. all that prevented it was a handful of state officials with notable courage and integrity. and the reluctance of two attorneys general and a vice-president to obey orders they deemed inappropriate.
these were not the checks and balances the framers had in mind when any designed the constitution of course. but trump has exposed the inadequacy of those protections. and that's from robert kagan, he was a very conservative thinker, somebody with whom i agree on basically nothing. but who has put a point on this moment. he published this in "the washington post" last night on the eve of the election results being released and the arizona election results result released today were hill air base found by their methodology that biden won by more than in arizona than we previously knew but they laid out why they thought the election seemed suspect, the result from former president trump was to call on the basis of this a audit for the arizona election results to be decertified for himself to be pro claimed the winner in arizona. even after this audit that pro claimed he lost worse than we knew he did before. we are at a moment that is
hilarious. and infuriating. but it's corrosive in a way we need to talk about too. we're speaking tonight this hour live with the arizona secretary of state with the actual state official in arizona in charge of administering elections in that state. her reaction to what happened with this republican audit of the election results was stinging and you should hear it and from her. we will talk with her. we're speaking tonight with the top county official in a large county in texas, trump yesterday demanded that texas, texas should have its election results forensically audited as well. texas officials today ordered that that will happen in the four largest counties in the state. we'll speak with the top county official in one of the counties to get her stinging response to that attack on the integrity of elections there. but before we talk with either of the officials i asked to be here tonight my friend steve schmidt. who is not directly involved in these matters not an elected official. but he is somebody who has had
clarity on this issue i think before a lot of the rest of us did. and this does feel like a crisis now. in does feel like a splitting point that has grown out of whatever is wrong in republican politics and in the politics that have arisen around the former president. and today with the call, even after the results of this audit showed that trump lost worse nan he thought, the call that this necessarily means the election results should be thrown out and trump declared the winner it feels like a breaking point, a full on separation between election results and facts in a way that feels irrevocable and that feels unmooring and alarming to me wab as hilarious as i find it in the short run but i found myself wantsing to take to steve about this precarious moment. i asked him to be here tonight. thank you for maepg time my friend. i appreciate it. >> great to be with you,rachel. thank you. >> i wanted you to be here tonight, steve, because i feel
like you have been throwing bull's-eyes in the darts match from the beginning. i wanted to know if you are sort of your state of mind, whether you are reassured or comforted at all by the way things took turn today? or whether this feels ominous to you, the way it does to me and people like mr. kagan writing "the washington post." >> i think it's extremely ominous,rachel. i think we are in a crisis, hard to overstate the magnitude of the crisis. i agree with mr. kagan donald trump will certainly be the republican nominee in 2024. we have an autocratic movement in this country. and one thing is certainly true. the republican party of late september 2021 is a profoundly more radical party than it was on election day, than it was on january 6th, than it was inauguration day. and part of the strategy -- and it's important to understand -- you see this with the chaos that could result from the debt
ceiling -- is they are trying both chaos at the same time where they are selling order. so all right-wing authoritarian movements do this. it's how they come to power. they drive chaos through policies of cynicism and nilism and promise to restore order with scapegoats. it's important. we shouldn't talk about the issues without mentions these are minority voters alleged to have fraudulently voted. that's not so much hidden by a dog whistle as loudly screamed by the trump people and lawyers. and so there is that aspect of it, number one. and two, when you have mainstream leaders supposedly like elise stephenic, imagine someone with the last name of stephenic, engaging in replacement theory, white
nationalism, white supremacist white replacement there in ads in her district. this is mainstream. the party is in open alliance with extremist elements, including the fascists you saw outside the capitol. and a bevy of other extremist groups. certainly there is political violence in the country because the argument that trump is making and so many of his allies is that civilization is going to collapse because of the hordes of minorities being imported to steal the birth right and the franchise of the american citizen. it is evil. it is demagoguic. it has been done before in history, the stigmatizing of people who are the weakest in a society, so scapegoat and to diffuse the blame from the problems that those that are --
that are attacking them are responsible for creating in the first place. yeah we're in a dangerous moment,rachelin the country and it's going to get worse. >> and, steve, when you talk about danger, as you describe it, increasing radicalization -- the thing that stuck with me today about mr. kagan's piece, is his critique of the underestimating of this as a threat, the understilting of the power of in authoritarian movement. and the consequence of underestimating which is apiecement. what it has me wondering is what is the opposite of underestimating it? what is the op opposite of apiecement? what are the options that are available if we decide to confront this as a country and do not take this -- to not play this down, to recognize the threat here and the historical echos you describe here in a way that is bone chilling? what does that look like? what is the opposite of
apiecement? >> confrontation. what you did at yourshowbrilliantly was this. and it puts you at the front of a fight that will determine whether we're able to maintain the republic and the front of the fight is the sideways where the lie is confronted with the truth. that's the battleground. and it plays out in a million ways. but a democracy cannot survive in a world where the lie and the truth stand equally. the system that we have is the based on a compact that requires faith and belief and trust. it's how we share power with people that we disagree with. we acknowledge that we live in a complex world where people have different perspectives. and we have to accommodate those views. in the 21st century i believe that there was a consensus that has unraveled in a startlingly short period of time that you
can trace back to the beginning of the country. in the name of political power, also the same people claiming that they're doing it in the name of freedom are saying that the preservation of freedom means maintains our power, not necessarily abiding the results of the election. and when you get to that territory you're in a scary space. it's essential to remember to understand one thing, and this has to be brought forward into the debate, despite all the flaws of american democracy or any democracy. democracies are the only system of government that has ever existed in the history of humanity that puts the individual human being on top of the power of the state. every other system sboerd natures the dignity of the human being to the power of the state for the purposes of the state,
often controlled by self--interested, corrupt minority. so this is the most profound moral issue that you could possibly talk about on any given evening in this country. because it goes to the heart of the american idea, the embrace of humanism, of natural rights, of pluralism and this idea that anybody can be an american, that we can all stand equal, co-equally in a society under the rule of law where we all get a say and get to participate. and that is what is being vandalized and attacked and successfully so. they are on the march. they are ascendant. they've raised more money than the democrats. republicans have tremendous advantages heading into this next midterm election. so we are indeed, as you have pointed out at a very frightening moment. >> steve schmidt, political
strategist and my friend who i most wanted to talk to today about in for your clarity and your seriousness of purpose on this thank you for being here tonight. >> thank you,rachel.   all right. much more to get to tonight as i mentioned we're going live to arizona tonight also live to texas which is the next place in their sights. stay with us. sights stay wh itus i can make an indoorsy person, outdoorsy. i can turn anyone into a beach bum. i make memories for people i don't even know yet. i am a vrbo host. ♪ ♪
♪ limu emu & doug ♪ got a couple of bogeys on your six, limu. they need customized car insurance from liberty mutual so they only pay for what they need. what do you say we see what this bird can do? woooooooooooooo... we are not getting you a helicopter. looks like we're walking, kid. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ nyquil severe gives you powerful relief for your worst cold and flu symptoms, on sunday night and every night. nyquil severe. the nighttime, sniffling, sneezing, coughing, aching, stuffy head, best sleep with a cold, medicine.
♪ when you hear 'cough cough sneeze sneeze' ♪ it's time for ♪ 'plop plop fizz fizz' ♪ alka seltzer plus cold relief, dissolves quickly... instantly ready to start working. so you can bounce back fast with alka-seltzer plus. in business, it's never just another day. it's the big sale, or the big presentation.
the day where everything goes right. or the one where nothing does. with comcast business you get the network that can deliver gig speeds to the most businesses and advanced cybersecurity to protect every device on it— all backed by a dedicated team, 24/7. every day in business is a big day. we'll keep you ready for what's next. comcast business powering possibilities.
so today we were treated to a multi, multi, multihour presentation by the cyberninjas in arizona. it took a minute to deliver the bvl of the so-called audit of the 2020 election in arizona. the audit confirming that joe biden won. there was no hidden stash of donald trump ballots, no fake biden ballots. in fact by their count joe biden increased the margin of victory by a few hundred votes. but then the cyberninjas and the
subcontractor and the arizona state senate republicans who hired them nevertheless spent hours all day attempting to create a big fog of uncertainty around the election itself. and voting itself and what is this thing we call counting anyway? why are you plugging that computer into a wall? who runs the wall? none of the people who spoke today actually runs elections in arizona. arizona does have a chief elections official. her name in katie hobbs, the elected secretary of state. throughout these months of the cyberninja republican exercise sme has basically been doing her best to contain the damage. her office sent observers elections professionals to the random arena where the cyberninjas sifted through the ballots. her observers reported back all kinds of chaos and security breaches. chain of custody breaches that no real professional audit would allow. the secretary of state's office kept a running online list of
all the concerns those observers had as the audit chugd along. it was in and out a short list. ultimately after consulting with real election securities and technology experts and federal department of homeland security secretary of state katie hobbs moved to decertify all the voting machines saying she had no choice. arizona republicans handed the machines over to the unaccredited cyber ninja company. nobody can say what they did to them. the security of the machines couldn't be guaranteed. maricopa county has to decommission all voting machines, having to spend millions to buy new ones. in the midst of this, secretary of state katie hobbs had to be assigned extra personal security protection because she was getting so many death threats. at one point chased down the street by a man screaming at her arizona accusing her of trying to shut down the cyberninja audit. today with the audit over, secretary hobbs said her piece,
releasing this statement. the state senate president and cyberninja as dragtd our state and country through months of partisan political theater culminating in a report reinforcing what elections experts have been is a saying all look the exercise was a scam. the parts review was never about affirming the election instead a attack on the democratic process stoked violence against election worker a political stunt with massive security risks, costs millions of dollars and has shaken faith in free and fair elections. joining us now is katie hobbs, secretary of state of the great state of arizona. also running for governor of the great state of arizona. madam stekt thank for making time i know this is a bewildering day. >> thanks for having me,rachel. great to be here. >> i say bewildering, because i don't even know what to ask in terms of your feelings and reaction now that this is done. do you have a sense of relief? do you have a sense of dread as
to what this means and what it may have unleashed? do you feel this isn't necessarily over even just in arizona and we should stay vigilant the way we have been? now do you feel about today. >> i think mostly what i'm feeling is a sense of status quo. that this report didn't change anything about the exercise that we have been through over the last several months. there was nothing earth shattering in the report. it contained tons of misinformation which we knew it would and which weaver been seeing all along throughout the process. but i think what's important to remind people that the cyberninjas didn't just come in and do this. they were enabled and in fact allowed to do this by arizona as elected leaders. by the senate president and the judiciary chair who issued a subpoena. these are the people leading our state. and they drug our state through this embarrassing saga, potentially compromised voter
security. this is dangerous. and they are being led by these conspiracy theorists. and then there is the enablers in the governor office who stood silent and said let's just see, even though he knew better. he certified the election results, knew they were accurate abt and valid. our state is in need of new leadership and voters in arizona are tired of the partisan games. they are mad about in audit. mad that these folks -- this third party had access and their hands on their ballots and potentially their private data. and this is keeping us from solving real problems. we have a lot of issues in arizona. we're still dealing with covid. we still have a lot of people that we need to get back to work. we need to invest in education so that every student has access to high quality public education. these are real issues that arizona voters care about. and it's important to remind people that this whole exercise
in futility has completely derailed any real action on these issues. you know, that's why i'm running for governor. if folks want to join me they can do that at katie hobbs.org. >> because you are running for governor, the secretary of state position which you hold now is going to be an open seat in terms of the next balloting in arizona. former president trump has endorsed a republican candidate for the job you now hold, somebody who says in fact that arizona was stolen and the election stolen from trump. and he ought to be reinstated as president and the election results ought to be overthrown. as somebody mo holds that job now, if somebody who holds those views got into your position, how dangerous would that be? >> well, i think this is a concerning trend that we're seeing not just in arizona but across the country. i can tell you as the chief election officer of the state of arizona, as an elected official, i took an oath to uphold the
constitution and laws of the united states and of arizona. and if i was making statements like the republican that you mentioned running for secretary of state was making, that would be an absecretary inject opposition to the oath i took. it's concerning that we're seeing these kind of candidacies across the country especially for positions that oversee elections, that should be impartial, and should be focused 100% on the process of ensuring that every single eligible voter has access to the ballot and that our elections are fair and secure. and that's what i've been focused on. it's what the voters of arizona elected me to do. and certainly when you start start talking about the outcome that's not what you're doing. and it should concern everyone that folks across the country not just arizona are trying to get their hands on these positions to influence the outcome of elections. >> arizona secretary of state katie hobbs who again is a declared candidate for governor
in arizona, madam stekt thank you for your time today. i know today has been exhausting in arizona and a lot of work to come thanks. >> thank you.   we've got more ahead tonight. stay with us. e got more ahead tonight. stay with us let's go walter! after you. walter, twelve o' clock. get em boy! [cows mooing] that is incredible. it's the multi-flex tailgate. it can be a step, it can even become a workspace. i meant the cat.
what's so great about him? he doesn't have a workspace. the chevy silverado with the available multi-flex tailgate. find new adventures. find new roads. chevrolet. we gave new zzzquil pure zzzs restorative herbal sleep the chevy silverado with the available multi-flex tailgate. to people who were tired of being tired. i've never slept like this before. i've never woken up like this before. crafted with clinically studied plant-based ingredients that work naturally with your body. for restorative sleep like never before. tonight... i'll be eating a club sandwich with fries and a side of mayonnaise. wonderful! mayonnaise... on fries? a little judgy, don't you think? that's weird. so weird. it's another day. and anything could happen. that's weird. it could be the day you welcome 1,200 guests and all their devices. or it could be the day there's a cyberthreat. get ready for it all with an advanced network and managed services from comcast business. and get cybersecurity solutions that let you see everything on your network. plus an expert team looking ahead 24/7
to help prevent threats. every day in business is a big day. we'll keep you ready for what's next. comcast business powering possibilities.
emergency planning for kids. we can't predict when an emergency will happen. so that's why it's important to make a plan with your parents. here are a few tips to stay safe. know how to get in touch with your family. write down phone numbers for your parents, siblings and neighbors. pick a place to meet your family if you are not together and can't go home. remind your parents to pack an emergency supply kit. making a plan might feel like homework, but it will help you and your family stay safe during an emergency.
yesterday on the eve of arizona republicans releasing the results of the so-called audit of the election today, audit results which as we've been talking about proved to be a real own goal for the republicans, their audit count showed president biden winning arizona by even more than the official count showed him winning. nevertheless, yesterday on the eve of the release of those results, florm president trump released a statement demanding that texas must immediatelily open a forensic audit of its results too. he said it must be done, quote, this week. let's get to the bottom of the 2020 presidential election scam. why do you want texas audited? you won texas you think you didn't win texas you wanted that
double checked? did you see what happened today in arizona? nevertheless within hours, because he told them to republican leaders in texas obliged late last night the texas secretary of state office announced they had begun a comprehensive forensic audit. not in the whole state, the four largest counties. dallas, harris and and tarrant county despite the secretary of state overseeing the election previously said it was smooth and secure. now trump wants it reviewed anyway. and so sir, yes, sir. exactly who ordered the election audits of the texas counties does remain a mystery. the texas secretary of state's office has technically been vacate since may. the news was announced in a two-sentence press release from the secretary of state's office. so the office decided? what part of the office? the the largest county in the state of texas is mayoris county, home to houston.
that county east elections administrator told the houston chronicle she was surprised as she had spoken with staff from the secretary of state office hours earlier and nobody mentioned anything about this. nevertheless, today the chief executive of harris county judge lynn aivr hidalgo had this response to the news. >> yesterday president donald trump urge governor abbott to investigate the texas election results. and within hours an investigation was announced. in pennsylvania and wisconsin, politics who lost all decency are pursuing similar audits. texans are smarter than this. sling politics with the integrity of elections threatens our democracy opinion every time you cry wolf, every time you yell fraud, run a phoney audit you are tearing down or democracy brick by brick. i'm speaking to every person who
is playing a part in this. this does not deserve to be treated as a serious matter or a serious audit. it is an irresponsible political trick. it is a sham. it is a cavalier and a dangerous assault on voters and on democracy. >> this does not deserve to be treated as a serious matter or serious audit. it's an irresponsible political trick. it's a sham. it's a cavalier and dangerous assault on voters and on democracy. joining us now is mayoris county judge lynn aire hidalgo, the chief executive of the county. thank you for your time tonight. >> thank you. >> we learned today you had no heads up about this. you found out in the secretary of state's office press release just like everybody else. since this mysterious announcement late at night have you or the county been given additional information as to what this is going to entail?
>> we have not. and that just tells you how nakedly political all of this is, how obviously fraudulent all of this is. we have to remember we had incredibly successful elections here in harris county in 2020. we had innovations that led to record turnout from both parties, the highest in 30 years. it was beautiful. and since then no evidence has come out that would in any way cause the need for this kind of audit. all we have seen is president trump exhorting the state -- or abbott to have this audit. you ask, you know, okay the office sits vacate, so who really did this? the governor appoints the secretary of state. that gives you a clue. the reality of it is that texas is being run from mar-a-lago. and that is dangerous. and it's not appropriate. it's -- it's frankly it's dangerous and it's extremely extremely concerning.
>> you spoke very passionately about this today. you said what republicans were doing with audits across the country. indeed in your county now you said it's the strategy of one party to burn it all to the ground when their candidate doesn't win. now that you're up against that, and that is about -- that is -- that's your county in which you are the highest elected official, what is what does fighting that look like? what does standing up to that look like? weaver been talking about not underestimating the corrosive impact of these things and not apiecing people wanting to go along with these things when people go along with them what does confrontation and fight going looks like? >> there are different pieces to it. first seeing this for what it is. we heard about the cyberninja audit in arizona, this similar thing is happening in pennsylvania and wisconsin. now here. so recognizing that trend, recognizing in the state of texas it's not just this audit. the state just passed
legislation that creates this veil of criminality around election basically sets traps so that innocent mistakes that routinely happen and routinely dealt with by offices of election administration, that those are sort of pegged as purposeful fraud and prosecuted as such. now we see this. on the one hand obviously it's pandering. the folks doing this know it helps with their base. but there is something more sinister and concerning there, which is that tears down trust in the election systems. and in doing that it conveniently sets republicans up to question the results of elections they don't like. so we have to call that for what it is. and we have to make sure we don't create some sort of false equivalency. on the one hand there is the audit. on the other hand counties oppose it. no, all of us have to recognize this is a cynical effort, a
tragic one at that and tampers with democracy. as far as what specifically we can do, i have our county attorney here looking at legal options. it's not career to us there is a stat under which the state can conduct the audit. but we also recognize the state supreme court will be friendly to whatever claims the state makes. we also are calling on legislatures not to fund this. this is the time where they should look at the moral compass, who they are as public servants. the legislatures in austin cannot fund in audit they will need to approve the funding for it. finally we need the federal government to act. this has gone too far we had lirpgts functionally move to dc over a month. i've been fighting tooth and nail since the election, remember they closed our mail ballot locations. they've interfered every step of the way. and so this should be another call to action that we've got the writing on the wall. we got to get offer our chairs and get moving on all of this. >> harris county texas judge
lina hidalgo, appreciate you being here tonight. that's all concrete and interesting information. i'm trying to make sure we can post the interview online tonight. i think officials around the country are facing these threats are taking some inspiration or at least some points of thought points of order from the way you and your colleagues approach this. thanks for helping us understand. >> thank you. >> all right. we'll be right back. stay with us. we'll be right back. stay with us and here. which is why the scientific expertise that helps operating rooms stay clean now helps the places you go too. look for the ecolab science certified seal. i just heard something amazing! now for the first time one medication was approved to treat and prevent migraines. nurtec is the first and only option proven to treat and prevent migraines with one medication. onederful. one quick dissolve tablet can start fast and last. don't take if allergic to nurtec. the most common side effects were nausea, stomach pain, and indigestion.
with nurtec odt, i treat migraine my way. what's your way? ask your doctor about nurtec to find out! without my medication, my small tremors would be extreme. i was diagnosed with parkinson's. i had to retire from law enforcement. it was devastating. one of my medications is three thousand dollars per month. prescription drugs do not work if you cannot afford them. aarp is fighting for americans like larry, and we won't stop. that's why we're calling on congress to let medicare negotiate lower prescription drug prices. in the race to succeed, does somebody always have to fail? let's give everybody a fair shot. because when that happens, we've all made it. ♪♪ with directv stream, i can get live tv and on demand... we've all made it. together. watch: serena williams... wonder woman.
serena... wonder woman... serena... wonder woman... ♪ ♪ ace. advantage! you cannot be serious! ♪ ♪ get your tv together with the best of live and on demand. introducing directv stream with no annual contract. did you know that your clothes can actually attract pet hair? with bounce pet hair & lint guard, your clothes can repel pet hair. look how the shirt on the left attracts pet hair like a magnet! pet hair is no match for bounce. with bounce, you can love your pets, and lint roll less. [ sneeze ] are you ok? oh, it's just a cold. if you have high blood pressure, a cold is not just a cold. unlike other cold medicines, coricidin provides powerful cold relief without raising your blood pressure be there for life's best moments with coricidin. now in sugar free liquid. in business, setbacks change everything. so get comcast business internet and add securityedge. it helps keep your network safe
by scanning for threats every 10 minutes. and unlike some cybersecurity options, this helps protect every connected device. yours, your employees' and even your customers'. so you can stay ahead. get started with a great offer and ask how you can add comcast business securityedge. plus for a limited time, ask how to get a $500 prepaid card when you upgrade. call today.
it's friday. congratulations. we made it. we made it to friday. there were times this week i wasn't sure we would. but we made it to friday. democrats in congress didn't. i mean it's friday for them as well. but they have to work through the weekend. today house speaker nancy pelosi said the house is going to vote on the infrastructure bill, the bipartisan infrastructure package on monday. now that means two things.
that means drama, because progressive democrats are not voting for that before there is a vote on the much bigger build back better legislation that matters much more to them. so it means drama around that. but it also means work. because if they're doing this thing monday they've got work to do before they get there. they will be working through the weekend to see if there is a path forward for both bills. i'd bad at predictions but what we are broadly expecting is that when the infrastructure bills comes up monday it's going to fail. that's part of the plan at this point, the ultimate plan being to pass both pieces of legislation together but that takes more time. anyway we shall see. but if you get the weekend off don't take it for granted. not everybody does. that does it for us for now. see you again monday. now time for the last word with lawrence o'donnell. >> good evening,rachel. congresswoman deb by denningle had quite a day including a