transportation here. there's a little bit of hope, and we will get there, but how long will it take? >> jonathan cohn, great reporting on this. thank you so much. >> that is "all in" on this monday evening. "therachelmaddowshow" starts right now. good evening,rachel. >> good evening, chris. thank you, my friend. thanks at home for joining us this hour. happy to have you here. >> the house and senate have been on recess the past week or so. they are coming back now. and tomorrow is going to be a very, very somber day in washington, as they return and get back to work. at 10:30 a.m. eastern, tomorrow morning, the body of u.s. capitol police officer billy evans is going to arrive at the u.s. capitol. officer evans, you will remember, was killed a week ago friday, april 2nd, when a young man with a knife rammed his car into a capitol barricade and into two u.s. capitol police
officers who were guarding that entrance to the u.s. capitol grounds. a second officer was injured in that attack and hospitalized briefly. he is out of the hospital and is apparently going to be okay. but officer evans was killed. killed in the line of duty, defending the u.s. capitol, just as officer brian sicknick was killed in the line of duty during the trump mob on the capitol january 6th. like officer sicknick, officer billy evans, tomorrow, will lie in honor at the u.s. capitol rotunda. his body will be brought to the capitol, to the rotunda in a very somber ceremonial arrival ceremony, a tribute to him. the officers and members of congress he was protecting when he died will take part in a ceremony honoring him, stay with the body during his viewing all day tomorrow at the rotunda.
there will be a ceremonial departure at 6:30 eastern tomorrow night. that will be an all-day thing tomorrow in washington. whatever else happens tomorrow in washington, you should expect, i think, it to take a backseat to that ceremony and honor that will span the full day tomorrow. that will likely have everybody's heart in their throat.   today, president biden made a string of increasingly high-profile appointments on homeland security, military and law enforcement posts, including a new head of the border patrol. a new head of citizenship and immigration, new head of the drug enforcement agency, department of homeland security, head of cyber security. a new army secretary. president biden's nominee to be secretary of the army will be the first woman ever appointed to that position. army secretary is the civilian chief, not the uniform chief for
that branch of the armed services, first time a woman has ever been nominated to be army secretary. i just referenced the january 6th attack on the capitol, talking about officer brian sick nick as we look ahead to officer billy evans lying in honor. in relation to january 6th, i think there was a sigh of relief that president biden finally nominated somebody, named somebody to be head of the criminal division at the justice department. this week, friday, will be 100 days since the january 6th attack on the capitol. there have been u.n.s of people arrested and charged but many observers, including some of the judges involved in these cases, have noted a certain level of chaos and disorganization at the justice department in the way these cases have been handled, up to and including the trump
appointee. going on television and giving a detailed interview about charges he thought should probably be brought against capitol rioters or charges that maybe might be brought, and people who haven't been charged yet, who he thinks maybe should be charged. nobody knows why he did that. he apparently did not have permission from the biden justice department to give that interview. the biden administration moved him out of the top prosecutor's job in drgets c., which is good since his totally out of bounds remarks about the january 6th cases are already being used to undermine prosecutions of alleged rioters. the biden administration has mofbed him out of position. who is moving in? republicans in the senate have slowed down the confirmation process so much for all appointees, including merrick
dparland. there's been consternation that all those cases about january 6th and the trump mob attack on the capitol that day, there have been consternation that it's seemed a little bit at sea, with nobody in charge, coordinating, nobody making sure there's consistent applications to the court that defendants charged with light crimes being treated in similar ways but the different courts that are hearing all these cases. it doesn't seem as there's anybody at end department wrangling in all of those complex cases as the biden administration hasn't been able to set up the justice department thus far. president biden has chosen to run the part of the justice department that will manage all of these dayses, the top federal
prosecutor in new orleans under president obama. now he is reportedly being chosen by president obama to head up the criminal division at the justice department. will he have a missive but it will include the overall management of the van 6th prosecutions. and as president biden chooses all these nominees for important positions and homeland security positions, basically all these nominees announced as seen as reformers and progressives in their fields, we remain quite struck as a country, stuck in this loop that we seem to not be able to get out of. in virginia, body cam footage release of officers pepper
spraying an army medic. the reason he didn't have a standard license plate on his car is because the car was brand new. it did have a proper dealer-issued temporary plate on t nevertheless, they pulled him over and treated him like this. here is the video that was just released of that incident this weekend. >> you received an order. obey it. >> i'm honestly afraid to get out. >> yeah. dude, you should be. get out. get out. >> get out of the car. >> get out now. >> i've not committed any crime. >> you're being stubborn, not cooperating. at this point right now you're under arrest -- you're being detained for obstruction of justice. >> i do not have to get out. >> really? really? get out of the car now. get out of the car. >> get your hands off me. get your hands off me. >> not a problem. >> i didn't do anything. >> sir, get out of the car now.
>> sir? hey, sir -- >> get out caster now. >> i'm trying to talk to you. >> i'm going to talk to you. >> can you please relax? can you please relax? >> get out of the car right now. >> this is not how you treat a vet. i'm actively serving the country. this is how you're going to treat me? i didn't do anything. whoa, hold on. what's going -- hold on. >> get out of the car. >> again, that body cam footage released this weekend. that incident took place in december 2020. after the body camera footage was released this weekend of that incident, one of the officers was now fired who took part in that incident. the lieutenant, uniformed army lieutenant who was inexplicably treated that way by those
officers is now suing over what happened to him in virginia. that happened this weekend. we saw that footage. we learned of that case. very, very difficult to watch. very hard to explain. and then last night -- maybe not that hard to explain, but very hard to swallow. and then last night in a suburban community just outside minneapolis, brooklyn center, minnesota, a 20-year-old african-american, daunte wright, unarmed, driving with his girlfriend in the car, father of a 2-year-old baby, mr. wright told his mother by phone that he was being pulled over for having an air freshener hanging from his mirror. he was told he was being pulled over by po expired tags. it's unclear of the origin of
the traffic stop. when they ran his i.d. they had an outstanding warrant on a misdemeanor. they decided to use the traffic stop to arrest him. two male officers, body camera footage released by the town's police chief today. body camera footage from a third officer, from a female officers. i should warn you, this video is not easy to watch. it is disturbing. you can see from the body camera that was worn by a third officer, female officer, she moved in closer to mr. wright while being handcuffed. some kind of sudden movement ensued, some kind of scuffle. the officer wearing the body camera says i'll tase you. then she tases mr. wright and shoots him with a gun. then the officer says holy bleep i shot him.
mr. wright drives off at speed, having just been shot. the other officers look at the officers wearing the body cam. the one with the handcuffs says oh, wow when she says, i shot him. mr. wright then drives a short distance and crashes, and he's dead. >> i'll tase you. taser, taser, taser. [ bleep ] i just shot him.
>> i just shot him, she says. she says taser, taser, taser, then she shoots him. the officer appears to realize she did not tase him. she shot him. the autopsy released says this individual died of a gun shot wound of the chest and the manner of death is a homicide. daunte wright's girlfriend was in the car when he was shot. as you saw in the video after the shooting, mr. wright drove away. he did drive a short distance before crashing and then died. his girlfriend called mr. wright's parents from the car. mr. wright's father raced to the scene and was there in less than ten minutes of this happening, his son laying dead on the street when he got there. now the officer who shot daunte wright is on leave now following this incident yesterday. the mayor has called in the department to fire her while the matter is being investigated.
this all happened yesterday. it happened ten miles from the courthouse where derek chauvin is on trial, former minneapolis police officer charged with murder and manslaughter for the death in custody last year of george floyd, another minneapolis african-american man whose unarmed interaction with police on a low-level law enforcement matter ended with him dead in the street. last night in and around brooklyn center, minnesota, angry protesters demonstrated, they broke windows, looted businesses, turning their anger against the local police station. national guard was ultimately activated. a vigil for daunte wright started tonight at 7:00 eastern, 6:00 local time in this minneapolis suburb. tonight, protesters are gathered outside police headquarters in brooklyn center, minnesota. the mayor of minneapolis, i mention this as sort of a minneapolis suburb. mayor of minneapolis declared a state of emergency in minneapolis. four counties, including
basically the whole minneapolis and st. paul metropolitan area instituted a curfew tonight. people not being allowed out on the street. major league baseball, major league hockey, major league basketball games were all scheduled tonight in the metro area. all of those games have been called off as most of the area is under a curfew. this is all happening where and while former minneapolis police officer derek chauvin is standing trial for the alleged murder of george floyd last year. today was day 11 of that trial. and that trial convenes for its third week. day 11 today while the news of yet another unarmed black man being killed by law enforcement in the minneapolis area looms over their proceedings. before the jury entered the courtroom for today's trial in the chauvin case, derek chauvin's defense lawyer asked
the judge if he would please sequester the jury, if he would put them up in a hotel basically where all they can do is attend the trial, can't see the news, would be isolated from people talking about the trial. derek chauvin's defense attorney asked the judge to do that with the jury right now because the jurors live in that community. he argued that the angry, agrieved emotional community reaction to daunte wright's death might bias jurors against his client. chauvin's defense attorney asked for the jurors to be sequestered today. the judge denied that request. but today the prosecution called what are expected to be their final witnesses in the case. cardiologist testifying that in george floyd's case, his death was not the result of a pre-existing heart condition. a use of force expert testified no reasonable officer would
consider officer derek chauvin's actions to be an appropriate, acceptable or reasonable use of force. but the witness who appeared to have the biggest impact in the courtroom was philonise floyd, george floyd's younger brother, the only member of the floyd family to take the stand during this trial. in the final moments of george floyd's life he was heard by witnesses to cry out for his mother, who at that point had been dead for two years. today, philonise floyd gave brief but powerful testimony as to why george floyd might have been calling for his mother, about george floyd's relationship with their mother. >> i will see him every day and i'll say, perry, because we called him perry instead of george. and he would say hold on. let me kiss mama before i come over there. and being around him, he showed us like how to treat our mom and
how to respect our mom. he just -- he loved her so dearly. and when george, he had found out that my mom was passing, because she had to stay with us for hospice. and he was talking to her over the phone, but she perished before he even came down here. so that right there, it hurt him a lot. and when we went to the funeral, george just sat there at the casket, over and over again, he would just say mama, mama, over and over again. and i didn't know what to tell him, because i was in pain, too. we all were hurting. and he was just kissing her and just kissing her.
he didn't want to leave the casket. and everybody was like, come on. come on. it's going to be okay. but it was just difficult, because no -- i don't know who can take that when you watch your mother, somebody who loved and cherish you and nourish you for your entire life and then they have to leave you. we all have to go through it, but it's difficult. and george, he was just in pain the entire time. >> that's the younger brother of george floyd, philonise floyd testifying today in the trial over his brother's murder. again, these were the final witnesses on the prosecution side today. the defense is expected to start calling its own witnesses as soon as tomorrow. all of this happening as the whole minneapolis region and the country remains on edge. as the minneapolis area starts
to process yet another very similar tragedy. much of the whole minneapolis and st. paul region under curfew as the community reacts to yet another shooting of an unarmed black man.   joining us live from brooklyn center, minnesota, is meagan fitzgerald. megan, thank you so much for being with us. can you tell us what you've seen tonight? we understand that the curfew is already in effect. we can see behind you plenty of people still out on the street. >> reporter: yeah, absolutely,rachel. as you mentioned, curfew already in effect. you can see there's hundreds of people out here and they tell me they're not going anywhere. they want justice. it's a community that's on edge. they're tired of these unarmed black people being shot at the hands of police. i want toshowyou here, obviously the situation being tense. protesters are running here but there's a fence up right around the police department here. they've erected this fence since
earlier today. officers are on the other side. you can't see that there but there are dozens of officers on the other side in riot gear, just watching, watching. every now and then we're seeing smoke being deployed. right now you hear they're talking to protesters, telling them to leave. yep. protesters obviously getting more angry. they're saying there's a curfew in place. they're trying to get people to go home. again,rachel, these folks tell me they're not going anywhere. they want to see that officer who pulled her gun accidentally, as the chief says, they want to see her fired. it's something that the mayor is calling for. the police chief here tells us she deserves due process and the process is going to play out.rachel, again, it's like a tinder box. at any moment, things could get worse.rachel? >> megan, i know it's loud where
you are. but if you can hear me, we can see protesters shaking that chain link fence there that's around the police building. we obviously saw people just bolt pretty quickly from that site. can you tell us anything about the nature of the confrontation here between police and protesters? are police using gas? are they issuing warnings? what's happening there on the front lines? >> so,rachel, at this point, it's warnings. we hear them getting on the bullpen, trying to tell protesters to back off. we are seeing smoke being deployed. it sounds like they could be shooting rubber bullets. we don't know for sure. it certainly sounds like that. you can see the smoke in the air here. protesters are shaking the fence. they are angry. they are frustrated, and they're not going anywhere. that's part of the concern here because there is a curfew in place. we just don't know at what point officers will make a move. again, as you're seeing here,
people in the crowd are throwing things over the fence. they are hitting vehicles that are on the other side of this fence. there goes another object thrown in the air here. really, it's very tense because we know that the officers on the other side likely won't allow this to go on all throughout the night. it's certainly a wait and see situation. i keep on saying this, but these protesters say they're fed up. they've had nuvgsrachel, and they're not ready to go anywhere, any time soon. >> megan, one of the things we saw last night as protests and some looting erupted is that we saw the national guard activated. we expected to see some sort of national guard presence. have you seen any sign of that tonight where you are? >> reporter: so what we know,rachel, is that they are doubled the amount of national guard members that are on the ground. there were 500 last night. right now there is 1,000
national guard members that are deployed to try to back up law enforcement officers, because at any time protests can erupt. as you mentioned, there is a state of emergency declared in minneapolis. there's also a curfew there, while the protests are here, people are on edge. anything concerning -- daunte wright. they don't want people to forget. they want to see the conversation going. they want these shootings to stop. >> megan, can i ask you, are you seeing any signs of local officials or any community leaders, anybody doing any organizing or leadership there in terms of trying to direct the protests or channel them? >> reporter:rachel, it's a great question. the mayor has been communicating
with the community via twitter. we've not seen him out here. we know there was a candlelight vigil that took place earlier today. they were being respectful of the curfew in place. it happened at 6:00. but we've not seen any leadership out here sort of directing or coraling the masses here, so to speak. it looks like these are groups of people who have come out, who live in the community. i spoke to people who drove in from miles away. we talked to mothers who said this could have been my son. we talked to college students who say it could be me. when is enough enough? at this point, these are people who you're looking at here, who have just come from all around this community here, but also throughout minneapolis.rachel? >> nbc news reporter meagan fitzgerald live from brooklyn center, minnesota. you and your crew stay safe. keep us apprised over the course
of the night. it's invaluable to have you there on the ground. please stay safe. >> reporter: absolutely. >> we'll have -- checking back in on that situation again, evolving situation right now in brooklyn center, minnesota, suburban minneapolis. daunte wright, unarmed, killed by police yesterday. body camera footage appearing toshowan officer saying she was going to tase him. apparently intending to tase him, expressing shock that she had shot him once she did, but he was killed by a gunshot to the chest as confirmed by the autopsy report tonight. this happening as minneapolis is already on edge because of the george floyd murder trial under way. just a tinder box of a night and a live eerks involving situation in minneapolis.
not everybody wants the same thing. that's why i go with liberty mutual — they customize my car insurance so i only pay for what i need. 'cause i do things a little differently. hey, i'll take one, please! wait, this isn't a hot-dog stand? no, can't you see the sign? wet. teddy. bears. get ya' wet teddy bears! one-hundred percent wet, guaranteed! or the next one is on me! only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ comfort in the extreme. ♪♪
the lincoln family of luxury suvs. ♪♪ we need to reduce plastic waste in the environment. that's why at america's beverage companies, our bottles are made to be re-made. not all plastic is the same. we're carefully designing our bottles to be one hundred percent recyclable, including the caps. they're collected and separated from other plastics, so they can be turned back into material that we use to make new bottles. that completes the circle, and reduces plastic waste. please help us get every bottle back.


.   about two dozen hospitals in the great state of michigan are at 90% capacity or above as that state deals with a huge surge in coronavirus. chief medical officer there saying when his hospital tried to transfer out some of its patients with the most acute needs, they couldn't do it. facing long delays trying to move patients out because so many hospitals are so crowded there's nowhere to move them to. as michigan covid cases and hospitalizations continue to rise without any relief at all, michigan health and hospital association said today they expect the number of hospitalizations in the state to beat last fall's peak, to head up higher than they've ever been before during the crisis at all. this is the daily new reported coronavirus cases in michigan. rye now, there are dozens of states that are having covid case numbers spike across the
country. michigan, by far, is the worst. still, though, even in light of that today the white house confirmed again they're not planning to send an extra allocation of vaccines to michigan. that is what governor gretchen whit mer is asking for to try to get michigan crisis under control. the white how has said they'll send other resources to try to help but not additional vaccine supplies. >> when you have an acute situation, extraordinary number of cases like we have in michigan, the answer is not necessarily to give vaccine. in fact, we know that the vaccine will have a delayed response. the answer to that is to really close things down, to go back to our basics, to go back to where we were last spring, last summer, and to shut things down. to flatten the curve, to decrease contact with one another, to test to the extent that we have available, to contact trace. sometimes you can't even do it at the capacity that you need. but really what we need to do in
those situations is shut things down. i think if we tried to vaccinate our way out of what is happening in michigan, we would be disappointed that it took so long for the vaccine to work, to actually have the impact. >> what we need to do in michigan is shut things down. if we try to vaccinate our way out of what's happening in michigan, we would be disappointed that it took so long for the vaccine to work. that's cdc director rochele walensky after governor whitmer pled the biden administration to send additional vaccines to the state. what the state is asking from the federal government and what the federal government is willing to give them and whether extra vaccines could help, clearly there's a disagreement there between the biden administration, between the white house and what the state wants. but the white house is sending
some additional resources. the white house stressed today that they're surging additional personnel, vaccinators to help expand michigan's vaccine capacity and help expand michigan's testing capacity. interestingly, they said they plan to surge treatments, therapeutics, monoclonal antibody treatments to michigan for people who are covid positive. the use of those treatments for people who contract covid is something we covered on thisshow. it shows they're really effective if used quickly enough. they're really effective at reducing the risk of hospitalization and death. for people who get covid, at high risk of getting very sick from covid, everybody over age 65, people over 55 with a number of different co-morbidities, younger people if they have serious enough co-morbidities. if you're covid positive and only have mild or moderate
symptoms, if you can get a monoclonal antibody infusion early, before you need to be hospitalized, they've shown to be incredibly effective at preventing people from getting sick, at saving lives. they're being underutilized. they're free to the end user. there isn't enough awareness that they could be used and that they should be used before people are sick enough that they need to be hospitalized. we've been talking about that a lot on thisshow. having a bunch of developments on that fronts. we have the federal government endorsing these treatments today. at the white house, saying that we don't believe extra vaccine supply in michigan will make the difference in this spike in cases and spike in hospitalizations there, but treatments to prevent people who have covid from getting very sick, monoclonal antibody treatments, we will surge those.
interesting. new interesting clinical data suggesting these types of treatment might be more useful and potentially ought to be more accessible than was clear today. regeneron is the best known. one, it's the easiest to pronounce and also it was the one given to president trump when he was diagnosed and went to walter reed. use this to treat people who have covid, at high risk of getting very sick from it. the infusion happens before you have to be hospitalized. it has to happen early in your infection. but today regeneron said they'll ask the fda if their treatment can be used at a broader time. basically, if it can be used to prevent treatment. according to phase three clivengal trial of people who were exposed to the virus, household exposure to the virus, taking this drug actually reduced the risk of getting covid, getting symptomatic infection by over 80%. the prospect that this could
keep you from getting infected if you are exposed to somebody with covid could be another big, major use for these types of drugs. the other sort of exciting top line from this trial is that for the purposes of this trial, they didn't give this drug in an iv infusion. they simply gave it as an injection, as a shot, same way you gave the vaccine, a much easier way to get people rather than they have to sit there for an hour and the drug gets slowly dripped into them. all this to say if further use for regeneron gets approved, if it's a way to fight surges, matters in michigan and could matter in other states. could that mean something important for our overall fight against this virus and the ongoing fight to save lives? dr. vin gupta, affiliate assistant professor at the institute for health metrics and
evaluation. dr. gupta, it's nice of you to make time tonight. thank you. >> thank you,rachel, for having me. >> so you've been very outspoken about the utility of these monoclonal antibody treatments in the fight against covid. i want to ask you as a practitioner if i said anything there that was wrong about them or if there's anything else that people should understand broadly about how these things could be used and why they should perhaps be used more than they are. >> absolutely. good to see you,rachel. everything you said was exactly correct. one thing i've in theed, i see the end consequence,rachel, if we don't use these at scale. i was just down in arizona, caring for a very different type of icu than i cared for in seattle at the beginning of the pandemic. younger patients, those with pre-existing conditions on ventilators and they were not asking for, they didn't know to ask for monoclonal antibodies.
we are definitely underutilizing a therapy that frankly because of the lack of demand for it could keep people out of the hospital. that's the key point here. 70% reduction in hospitalizations and deaths for those who have covid-19, have mild to moderate symptoms. this could potentially halt progression. >> how does it work practically? i feel like we've talked about this a few different times on theshow, dr. kessler, scientific adviser to the white house covid response. and i still feel like the thing that comes up when i talk to people about this in my personal life, when i've had conversations with this, people just don't know what to do. let's say i'm not 65, but let's say i was 65 and i just found out that i'm covid positive. if i'm 65, technically ierk qualify to get this treatment as a potentially high-risk infection. what do i do if i want to access
this antibody? if nobody has offered it to me, my doctor doesn't seem to know what it is, how do i go about receiving it? >> it's a patient-driven exercise not provider driven. there's no paradigm we've dealt with in the past where a patient has to self screen and seek out this therapy. so for all your viewers out there go to combatcovid.hhs.gov i would delineate everything in terms of all the inclusion criteria if you were to meet that, 65 and older, had a pre-existing condition and you're 55 and older. anybody that's watching us, chronic kidney disease, diabetes or is taking an immuno-suppressed medication 12 and older, you would qualify. go to that website. search by website for infusion centers. southeast michigan those of you watching this right now i used the website to see if there are therapies available there. the government and hhs, dr.
kessler's outfit is actively verifying the hospitals especially in hot zones have supply if the website has it. that's a big issue early on, we direct people to that website, turns out it was hard to access it, because the hospitals didn't have that. if the green checkmark is verified on that website at places, infusion centers, call them, get a prescription. go in and get your therapy. this is a challenge. at the same health care systems that are trying to vaccinate and test americans to then also provide part of tha clinics to infuse antibodies. >> dr. vin gupta, thank you for everything that you've done both online and on television and all of your work as a practitioner to try to keep this issue front and center. it's an underutilized therapy
that could save thousands of lives. thank you, sir. appreciate it. we'll be right back. stay with us. we'll be right back. stay with us engineers and electricians. calling all brick masons and boiler makers. steel workers and steam fitters your country is calling you to rebuild america. to create a cleaner, safer, more prosperous future for all. tackling climate change, this is the job of our lifetime. it's time to build back better. let's get to work. my psoriatic arthritis pain? i had enough! it's not getting in my way. joint pain, swelling, tenderness...much better. my psoriasis, clearer... cosentyx works on all of this. four years and counting. so watch out. i got this! watch me.
real people with active psoriatic arthritis look and feel better with cosentyx. cosentyx works fast for results that can last. it treats the multiple symptoms of psoriatic arthritis, like joint pain and tenderness, back pain, and helps stop further joint damage. don't use if you're allergic to cosentyx. before starting, get checked for tuberculosis. an increased risk of infections and lowered ability to fight them may occur. tell your doctor about an infection or symptoms, if your inflammatory bowel disease symptoms develop or worsen, or if you've had a vaccine, or plan to. serious allergic reactions may occur. i just look and feel better. i got real relief with cosentyx. watch me! feel real relief. ask your rheumatologist about cosentyx.

♪ ♪ ♪ when it comes to your financial health, just a few small steps can make a real difference. ♪ ♪ ♪
learn, save and spend with guidance from chase. confidence feels good. chase. make more of what's yours.   we're continuing to monitor an unfolding situation in minnesota tonight. brooklyn center police officers yesterday pulled over a young, unarmed african-american man named daunte wright. they pulled him over for expired registration tags. he was on the phone with his mother. he told her he was being pulled over for having an air freshener dangling from his rear view mirror. they decided they would arrest him on a warrant for an outstanding misdemeanor
related -- warrant for an outing misdemeanor. a brooklyn center police officer said she was going to tase him. she said taser, taser, taser, and then she shot him with her gun immediately saying, oh, expletive, i shot him. that body camera footage released by brooklyn center police officers today and you're seeing the aftermath of that here with live images on your screen. this is 10 miles from the courthouse where trial is under way for former minneapolis police officer derek chauvin, on trial for killing george floyd in low-level law enforcement interaction last year. there is right now in the whole minneapolis/st. paul region there is a four-county curfew in effect tonight. nobody is supposed to be out on the street for almost two hours now, that's already been in effect. as you can see, there are -- at least in the scenes we're
looking at -- hundreds of people here. this is outside the police station in brooklyn center, minnesota. and, as you can see, people are out in force. we have seen some people shaking the fence. we have seen what looked like fireworks. we have definitely seen people in what appears to be direct confrontation with the police. this is an unfolding situation. and the numbers we've been able to see on our screen have been growing over the course of this hour, while we've been looking in on this. i'll ask the control room, do we have ron available? okay, we do. ron allen, nbc news correspondent, is live for us there in brooklyn center. ron, where are you and what can you see from where you are? >> reporter: we are just down the street,rachel, from police headquarters, which is down in that direction. we can see a lot of smoke coming from tear gas that's been fired apparently by the police and protesters have been firing off fireworks in the other
direction. we've seen a number of projectiles going into the police compound. there's a big fence around it. and this standoff has been going on now for several hours. the police have come out recently in the last couple of hours -- couple of minutes i should say, and told the crowd they're in violation of curfew and if they did not leave, they would be in violation. the police have been patient. they've been waiting this out. now it seems like their patience has run out. there are more and more people coming this way. can we go down this way a little bit, guys? come down the street. can you see the crowd is coming this way. let's stop right there. there you go. all night, the crowd has been coming and going, but it's been, i would say, several hundred people easily who have been here throughout the night. they are angry, frustrated. they don't like the explanation that the police have given about how an officer, who has now been identified, 26-year veteran, kim
collier, i believe it is, who says apparently she mistook a taser for a service revolver and fired, killing mr. wright, daunte wright, who is 20 years old. the crowd is angry. they want the officer fired immediately. and earlier today, we heard the police chief say that there would be some sort of due process happening. the mayor said he supported fire ing the chief immediately. and they're saying daunte didn't get any due process so why should this officer? things are settling a little bit. it seems that the area right in front of the police department has been vacated and there are not as many people in the street now as there were hours ago. but people are still out here. they're not going home. over in this direction, you can see at this dollar tree store in the distance -- please give me a second, okay? over there, you can see people
are going in and out of that store. can you get that shot? can you see that? that store has been looted now for the past couple of hours. people are walking through the parking lot with carts full of stuff. you can see people going in and out. let's let's focus on the police department. people will come seeing this happening here. over there you can see the police after hours of being patient i guess you could say they started firing tear gas. the crowd is now dispersing but not going home. they're still here in the streets. they're still here. they're still here. >> innocent -- >> easy, easy. come on. easy. tell me what happened. >> the police are now firing on homes. homes that are just across the street that have nothing to do with nothing. >> i will -- >> i'm going to go. report that, nbc. >> reporter: okay, okay, okay. okay. hey, hey.
okay, okay, okay. take it easy. please. >> we are. >> okay, all right. >> stop. >> take it easy. >> reporter: folks, folks. if you want to tell the world what's going on out here. okay? we know everybody's angry. please. >> put your hands on a woman. >> you're not allowed to -- okay, okay. >> what are you doing? >> go home! bye! go home! >> reporter: tell me what you want to see happen down here. i don't think so. no, no, no. no, no, no. no, no, no. what do you want to see happen out here? >> we need the police to stand down. we are peaceful protesters. we are here to talk about the fact that daunte wright was murdered. murdered. in your community. >> reporter: what do you think about the explanation that the police officer mistook the taser for a gun?
>> i shot a gun. i've held a taser. i can tell the difference between the weight of a gun, the trigger on a gun. versus on a taser? the sound is different. the weight is different! the weight is different. anyone who's held a weapon and shot a weapon knows what the weapon is. that's the first thing you learn. you learn the responsibility. the police say it's that easy to mistake a gun and a taser. >> reporter: are you going to stay out here all night? >> i'm going to do what needs to be done. be here for my people. >> focus on the community. >> as long as that takes. be here for my people. >> reporter: do you know daunte and the family very well at all? >> no, i don't. >> reporter: does anybody? >> get the fuck out. >>rachel, all right why you heard all that. some of it rational but the
bottom line is that the people are out here in the street not going anywhere. and the police have stopped firing tear gas. they're still behind that fence perimeter. >> the police! >> reporter: easy. easy. hey. what do you want to see happen? >> what do i want to say? >> reporter: i got it. >> i want these bitch ass niggers to stop -- >> we're going to cut in because we have a responsibility in terms of the language and i'm sorry to have to cut in on you there, ron, but certain things to broadcast and certain things we can't. this is live footage and we do apologize for the language there but what ron is testifying to there with live reporting and trying to watch his back and in the middle of it and trying to get people to speak in ways that get the message out that they want out is the rawness and the
anger. the footage that you see here, zooming in there, that is the police station in brooklyn center, minnesota. and we have in this situation right here a curfew in place. the police have been giving warnings that they would clear the streets because nobody's allowed simply to be out by virtue of the curfew. while ron is talking about this sort of ebbing and flowing over the course of the hour the numbers that we are able to see in the streets are considerable and doesn't seem like it is thinning out over time and clearly a agitated and confrontational moment in this place. we don't know what the overall police response is going to be. they have been using gas and seeing them warnings and people throwing fireworks and projectile just the national guard has been activated. we are not seeing signs 0 of that in our camera view but that doesn't mean that they're not
there. we are trying to figure out if the presence is something to appear in the streets in a more visible way. meghan fitzgerald is covering the scene. we'll join her now by phone. are you still near to the police station where we spoke with you earlier? >> reporter:rachel, we are just outside of the city limits of brook listen center. shortly after we got off air we were rushed out by the security team at the crowd as a gas was deployed and this is what we have seen throughout the night. as it gets darker outside, as things start to go out, whether it's the fireworks or it's something from within the crowd or something coming from law enforcement, we are seeing the crowd run and then go right back. we also saw looters at the nearby stores going in. the dollar tree. which is not far from where we were. and at that point which was a free for all as we have seen
before. we saw people carrying handfuls of things out of the store and now a protest taking a different turn. these are the people that showed up for a different reason. right? we talked to the people on the ground. our colleagues, ron talking to people there who are here because they want justice. but as night falls, as it gets later, this is where we start to see things take a turn for the worst.rachel? >> meghan, one of the things that is appears to be concerns just from the angles is seeing not only police and police lines, police masked in a formation that's designed to protect a perimeter, seeing essentially chaotic movements of protesters and people driving amid the protesters.
can you tell anything from where you are, the overall die naming, the scale and whether this is under control? >> reporter:rachel, it is a great question. it is a good observation. we saw that. cars are being used to block in protesters. i think that was another thing that our security team was concerned about. is that at some point you could be stuck because it seems that protesters or rioters, using the cars to kind of keep people within a certain radius. so that's certainly concerning. but it doesn't seem as though it's under control. people are able to go and do as they wish at this moment. as i was telling you we were watching the people looting as we were getting ourselves out of the situation as it continued to get more tense and there was no law enforcement presence. and as you saw by the cameras there you are looking at the perimeter around the police
department. the police officers are behind that gate. so they have not made a move yet which is why you got the sense that any moment now things could certainly escalate once police officers kind of leave that gate, that gated area where they are. but at this point from what we were able to tell officers remained there on the grounds of the police department,rachel. >> yeah. we are seeing in our footage officers shoulder to shoulder, some of whom appear to have shields and other crowd control or riot gear. it's hard to grasp the dynamic in terms of how the con nettic activity is happening. meghan, we will be back with you. ron allen there for us, as well. several correspondents there and crews. i apologize for the language you heard when ron allen was
speaking with protesters live but as you can see this is a fluid and fast developing sif wags and trying to give you the best look we can on the ground and includes talking to people, angry people when we can and when it is safe to do so and sometimes the language will go south. i will just also follow up on something ron mentioned a moment ago. the state has actually released the name of the officer who discharged the firearm in the daunte wright incident yesterday in brooklyn center, minnesota, which resulted in mr. write's death. we have seen the body cam footage from the officer that says taser, taser, taser and shoots mr. wright and says oh bleep i shot him. that female officer is identified, kimberly potter, a 26-year veteran of that police
force and put on administrative leave. so we're watching this tonight. there is a curfew in effect. a curfew that's been called in the region and four counties in that metro area. it is doing nothing to keep this increasingly tense, increasingly angry protest in brooklyn center from continuing to unfold. all right. live coverage continues now with "the last word." lawrence o'donnell hosting. good evening. >> thank you. we'll continue the live coverage, also. going to ron allen in just a minute. thank you for your live coverage. appreciate it. we are going to begin tonight in brooklyn center, minnesota, where protesters have gathered in the cities near the city's police headquarters. we are going to be joined by ron allen who is there at the scene. ron, what is the latest situation