but somebody is to blame. >> yeah, it would be nice i think you just live in a world where we don't have to worry if everything he said was true. that would be last of a risk. but that's that, we are all grown-ups here and we often take responsibility. including these two people, michelle goldberg and sam -seater. thank you both. >> thank you. >> that is all in on this monday night from the,rachelmaddowshowstarts tonight. >> good evening chris, thank you my friend much appreciated. >> you bet. >> thank you to that home for joining us, i'm happy to have you here. here is my home studio, as you can see, this time the reason i'm here is that i've had a recent covid exposure. i'm vaccinated and boosted, i've tested negative so far but i was definitely exposed to somebody who is symptomatic and positive. and for this job, i cannot wear a mask in the studio i'm doing
this job so that means that i cannot go into the studio and risk infecting any of my beloved coworkers or anybody else in that space. so again, i'm fine and there's absolutely nothing to worry about. i'm trying to do my part to make sure that what anybody else at risk. so please just forgive this! actually, i had makeup dropped off for me today like on my front porch so i could do it myself. i don't know how to do that, so i just didn't. i hope you don't mind! forgiven a lighting or backdrop complaints. i'm just trying to be stave. welcome to 2022, this is the way it works! [laughs] also, because everything has to happen at once, i have one announcement for get underway tonight. a couple of years ago, you may remember that i did a podcast. it was relatively short, seven episodes, single our podcast called chiraz bag man.
it was about nixon's vice president and him running a bribery and extortion ring out of the white house. these young federal prosecutors, marilyn basically stumbled chiraz on a croak. it's an envoy up of cash in being a public official, they put together this criminal case against him even though he was the city vice president. it was all right in the middle of water creating, only things to those prosecutors that we didn't end up with president egg knew when nixon resigned in disgrace. it would've been after the national trauma and disgrace of watergate. it would next have been president agony with a felon, presumably taking on both full of cash in the oval office instead of his vice presidential office. how does prosecutors not follow their case to the end and for stagnant to resign, that is what would've happened. i still think it is just an absolutely amazing story. and it also turns out to be the very surprising origin story of
why the justice department thinks a sitting president can't be criminally indicted. even if they crumb mid-terrible crimes where they are in office. it's under the twice impeached president that we just had. that whole construct that we just had that you can't indict a sitting president actually came from this bureau aga nightmare in the 1970s. i'm so fascinated by the story, i've learned a lot more in-app watch that podcast. the reason i'm telling you this is because it is not going to be a movie. ben stiller's going to direct, it he is incredible. one of the producers of the film is lorne michaels, yes that lorne michaels. this is been in the works for a while now but it looks like it is going to happen. i am super excited about it. and i'm going to take a little
bit of time off from thisshowto go help with the movie. and also that work on some other things i have cooking with and d.c. right now, including a new podcast. it's kind of along the lines of bag man and the egg new story. but it's an totally different topic. and when i say along the same lines, i mean to say it has got a specific arc, it is a specific story. it is reported journalistic tale. it is not just a jaipur jabber podcast where chat people and admit i haven't done the reading. it's a real thing on a story that i've been starting to research a report for the last few months now. i'm super excited about it. i'm super excited to tell you more about it. >> sometimes a late night host go on hiatus and their shows, i'm gonna go on hiatus here from theshow. i'm in trying to work on some of those projects. >> in addition to the batman movie, oh marking on the paper
back of the bag man book, i'm also coming out in april. it's also an adaptation of a different book that i want to make for tv as well. there's all the stuff that i want to work on and i want to work some more on. as you can tell, i'm nervous about all of this has a change in my life. but it is all for the good! i will be here through thursday this week and then the -- highest and i'm just going to be off for a few. weeks off and doing the shot, not really going anywhere. i'll be back for the state of the union and for other big news events in the meantime. i will also be back during theshowagain the frail even miss me. i moved back in april! and there may eventually be another hiatus again sometime in my future, but for now we are just taking it one step at a time. again, i will be here through thursday this week. and of course, while i'm away thisshowwill continue to be run by the absolute best producers this entire business and the amazing staff of theshow. don't worry, you will be in
very, very good hands. change is good, changes absolutely terrifying. but in this case, it is good. so, now you know, let's never speak this again. okay. all right, enough of that, let's get started. tonight, cnn had this scoop and nbc news. the chief of staff to former vice president mike pence has given testimony to the jenner six investigation for hours. this apparently happened wednesday last week, prison for a subpoena that happened to him. let alone that he testified it's a good reminder that the january six investigation, they do announce some of their stuff publicly. testifying but would seem to be a big deal in this investigation. if you think about how he fits into this, we've talked about this on theshow.
the effort to overthrow the government revenue present from taking power. -- first in the states, jim and up for the production regularity to justify the election results in those states where trump. >> -- >> they actually forged paperwork for claiming themselves to be the electors of that state, even though they weren't. that paperwork was sent into congress in the national archives to make it look like those states for electoral votes when they were not. that will happen in the states, level one is no states. level twos at the justice department. what they try to do is try and use the u.s. justice department four u.s. attorneys all the way up to the attorney generals office. they tried to use the justice department to give some kind of arab authority to these fake claims about fraud from the states. and to encourage the legislators and falsify the
election results and throughout the real electors. so, level one was at the state level. level two's at the justice level. and then level three of the plot, which is the one that we saw the most on january six when the targeting of mike pence. specifically, in his role of actually opening and counting the electoral votes in congress on january six. there was all this pressure intimidation directed at mike pence personally and from others who are part of the plot. the whole mob this from the capitol on january six were shouting, hang mike pence. they are trying to find mike pence they were the muscle, they were the physical intimidation behind that part of the scheme that targeted pence. the former president, former president trump just last night put out random words capitalized. in which you just said outright and didn't want or expect pence
to use that role in counting the electoral rule. overturning the election results, mike pence did have the right to change the outcome. unfortunately, he didn't exercise that power. he could've overturn the election. i'm just saying bluntly, now we're not hiding from it. it is still an open question as to whether not might vice president pence is going to testify to the january six commission. but we now know his chief of staff testified. that is a big deal. not only was chief of staff mark short with vice president pence on january 6th, including being on the capitol with mob of -- that marc short, pence's chief of staff was also with vice president -- two days earlier in the oval office. on january -- they reportedly tried to convince pence and person that
he shouldn't count the real electoral college votes. he should reject them, refused to open them, refused to recognize that the real votes. maybe there will be others, maybe those slates of electors should count just as much. if there were two sets of electors, and be the forged ones that are causing the states entirely. they were trying to get internet to a electoral college count. the reportedly pressured mike pence to do that in person, in the oval office on january 4th. marc short was sitting right next to mike pence during that meeting. marc short has just testified to the january six investigation. so, as far as this investigation goes, that testimony would seem to be a big deal. the washington post has also got some strange but true news tonight about the documents.
they're more than 70 pages of white house documents that trump had tried to keep secret from january six investigation. he ultimately is forced by the courts tanis documents over. there's a document that we're in the position of the national records -- it was all white house records. politico had reported back in 2018, i can't believe this is coming back in this way now a political reported in 2018 that even though there is a law, i should let you preserve all white house records. it is illegal to destroy them, despite that. political reported in 2018 that one of the art hallmarks of the trump presidency is that they bark that lie every day. trump made a habit of tearing papers up, physically ripping them up as soon as he had seen them. ripping them just in half or ripping them into teeny tiny pieces. still remember that article, it was so weird so good.
the headline was make the guys who trump papers back together. the firing system involves tearing up documents into pieces, even when they are supposed to be preserved. apparently, that haven't persisted through to the end. this is the washington post tonight. when the aircraft are gestation handed over the committee investigating the january 6th insurrection. some of the trump records had been ripped up and taped back together according to three people together the records. former president trump was known inside the white house for his unusual and potentially unlawful habit and sharing presidential records into shreds and tossing them on the floor. creating a headache for records management analysts who meticulously use scotch tape to piece together fragments of paper that are small as confetti. despite the records act which required the presentation of, memos lots and other documents
related to president -- these practices apparently continued well into the latter stages of his presidency. the national archives today said in the statement that records turned over from the trump white house included paper records that had been torn up by former president trump. the washington post question of some of the records had to be ripped up and taped back together. >> yes, all totally normal. the courts are divorcing to hand over those documents, when they were handed over there were all torn into bits and scotch taped back together. it's totally normal. there's been headlines in every major paper of the country yesterday and today about former president trump this weekend, pledging that he would pardon people arrested in their part in the mob attack on january six. he didn't hinted, he said he would do it.
this is amazing to me, this is the moment at his rally this weekend. he said he would pardon the january six defenders. we all don't happen on january six, right? literally 140 police officers were injured by the trump mob attack on january six. police officers were tased, beaten, stopped, speared, dragged, pinged and broken bones, chemical bones. here's the moment, where these folks standing behind trump. trump was saying that he -- they'd been treated so unfairly, so unfairly. >> yeah, cops for what? you're gonna pardon who for what? cops for trump. the importance of him promising this is hard to miss.
for one day, it will have a current effect -- those defendants think trump will get him get out of jail free card if and when he gets out of office. that is reason for them not to cooperate, but enough to provide information about what is play bills. they have to be free. but you know, trump promising to do something lawless and corrupt if he becomes president chiraz is like your friend january promising will be cold next time she's around. yeah, the. we have seen what he does when he has the power of the presidency. the power of the presidency as a lawless and corrupt self serving lie, it's chiraz -- he did also use that idea and a sort of segue that is new. that is a new kind of danger for him when he should take to
the streets if he gets indicted. >> the radical democrats are dead corrupt beyond belief. they're viciously chiraz and unconstitutionally to prosecute in silence. politicians like me, although i never considered myself to be a politician, but that is what they are doing as an example of years a been going after my company. they went off for many years using every trick in the book and attempt to literally if they can put me and jail. they want to put me in jail, these racist prosecutors, if they do anything wrong or illegal i hope that we have in this country the biggest protests we've ever had in washington d.c., in new york, and atlanta and elsewhere.
>> it is one thing to promised pardons if you are returning to the presidency. but this is something he has asked for, he wants to supporters in the streets if and when he is indicted. he doesn't need to be president to demand. that he is demanding that now. right? i'm a grand jury, any prosecutor of these proceedings will have to bear the physical wrought of trump support if they dare indict it. and those supporters may in fact calculate the level of action that they're willing to take on his behalf. and consideration of these promised pardons, these pardons that he is promising those who have already committed violence in his name before chiraz it is one thing to promise to do something once you're going to be president again. but him demanding that his supporters take to the streets if he is indicted, that is
about that is not wrong and cannot be on wrong. that is in the threat of what might happen if he's ever president again. that is what will happen now, trying to hold him accountable if he's even never going to hold office again. joining us now is former republican strategist steve schmidt. steve, thank you very much for being at. this i really appreciate you being here. >> good eveningrachel. >> let me ask you about these comments from the president. we have a statement from him saying he's wanted by pence to overturn the election. if i return to the presidency, i will pardon the january six defendants. any saying, and so many words, saying they want in the streets of the various places not being considered a potential criminal trials. is this a different threat to the company? >> well, i think that we have to look at this in the context
of his apologies for people who committed grave acts of violence including murder of police officers on january six. so, he is not just simply calling people out to protest an exercise his first amendment right. there is more than a patina of menace to it. when you look at the totality of all of thisrachel, we have an autocratic movement in this country. most of what trump talks about now is not about the 2020 election. so much about it is about the 24 election. in a matter but, we can anticipate that should the republican candidate lose that election it might be trump, and might well be trump. whoever the republican candidate is, they will have preconditions in the overwhelming majority and they
are not possible. the election was stolen. and sooner or later, when you have combined all of these things like conspiracies, intimations to violence and all of the lies. ultimately, it will trigger political lies. we know that because we have seen on the edges the violence that has already been triggered. we know what is possible by looking at other countries. but everything that is happening in america right now it's happening in the open very transparently. the people who see take power included through undemocratic means about what it is they intend to do with it, we should look at this as a bunch of things altogether, including the comments talking about locking people up who are of a different political persuasion.
he means it 100 and 10%. >> steve, to the extent of what is different here for this happening in our country now is that it is happening in the opening promises are being made into a microphone. they are being made openly, being talked about how they're going to do. it that should be an advantage for the rest of the country that wants this not to happen and wants to defend the democracy against his takeover. is there any advantage to go and be openly plotted? was to sort of advance notice it is going -- how did we prepare? >> democracies have this in common that they are slow to respond to threats. the second world war is a prime example of this and we see it today. this is playing out in front of
us and we seem to be unable to know exactly what is it, what do we call it? what does it mean win florida there are neo-nazis with swastikas hanging out on an overpass in orlando i believe? what's does the rising extremism for the country, it seems to me that you cannot postpone forever the fda of the country in making it central to the debate. what trump did at its core was break the compact that exists between us about how we portion lawful power. who gets to make lawful decisions under a constitutional system that restrains the power of government, enumerates the powers that it does have and tries individual rights. trump has shattered that
concept. we have seen this epidemic of cowardice. they have been unwilling to stand up for the american constitution so all of these things brought together a point of real danger as we head into the next election, the one after that and the presidential which we can anticipate a lot of instability in this country. we can anticipate political violence because ultimately that fuse which has been lit a long time ago will ultimately burned to the explosives wherever they may be. we don't quite know yet. >> steve schmidt, former republican strategist, steve ellis really looking for to talk to you about this tonight. as soon as i heard what trump said, i sought to try to get you here tonight to talk about it. thank you for being here my friend, thank you for your time.
>> good to be with yourachel, thank you. >> i will say with stephen just mentioning there about neo-nazi groups on overpasses nor land of. he is not being hyperbolic. that is one of the things that happened this weekend and what was a pretty dark soup of news over the last few days. we'll have the latest about why this happens. you want to hear what he has to say. we have a lot of head tonight. stay with us. say. say. we have a lot of head yours. protect it with bayer aspirin. be sure to talk to your doctor stay with us before you begin an aspirin regimen.
>> woman: what's my safelite story? i see inspiration right through my glass. so when my windshield cracked, i chose safelite. they replaced the glass and recalibrated my safety system. that's service i can trust. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ [♪♪] if you have diabetes, it's important to have confidence in the nutritional drink you choose. try boost glucose control®. it's clinically shown to help manage blood sugar levels and contains high quality protein to help manage hunger and support muscle health. try boost® today. with relapsing forms of ms... there's a lot to deal with. not just unpredictable relapses. all these other things too. it can all add up. kesimpta is a once-monthly at-home injection... that may help you put these rms challenges in their place. kesimpta was proven superior at reducing the rate of relapses, active lesions, and slowing disability progression vs aubagio.
don't take kesimpta if you have hepatitis b, and tell your doctor if you have had it, as it could come back. kesimpta can cause serious side effects, including infections. while no cases of pml were reported in rms clinical trials, it could happen. tell your doctor if you had or plan to have vaccines, or if you are or plan to become pregnant. kesimpta may cause a decrease in some types of antibodies. the most common side effects are upper respiratory tract infection, headache, and injection reactions. ready for an at-home treatment with dramatic results? it's time to ask your doctor about kesimpta. ♪ ♪ the district attorney in fulton ♪ ♪

county georgia is named funny willis. on theshowabout a year ago february of last year, just after her office, publicly confirmed that she was investigating president trump's efforts to overturn the 2020 election results in the state of georgia. she appeared on theshowfor the new -- interview. in that interview in the very beginning of her investigation she told us that her security
had already been doubled to handle increased threats from president trump supporters since they had announced in their office that the investigation -- >> i have to ask if it has crossed a line. are you worried about your own safety and that of your staff opening this an investigation making targets. >> absolutely. since we've opened this, my security has doubled. we've gotten a lot of comments, interestingly enough on the comments always racist, it's really just a waste of time and foolishness and it's not going to stop me from doing my job, and i don't think that it's an insult to remind me that i'm a black woman. it's a waste of their time. we understand people are unstable. some people think the nerve of me to actually do my job but i took an oath. i made a commitment to the citizens of my community and
i'm going to do my job. >> i'm gonna do my job. that was february of last year. fulton county, georgia district attorney saying her security had doubled already at the very start of that investigation of the former president. a year down the road, district attorney willis has convened a special grand jury to consider the particulars of that case. she is now called for backup in terms of her security. she's written a letter to the special agents in charge of the fbi. the fbi's atlanta field office, because of new concerns for the safety, not just of her team, the prosecutors office but of everybody that is even just physically close to her investigation. the letter says in part quote, i have an obligation to ensure that those who work in and visit the fulton county courthouse, the adjoining government center and the surrounding areas are safe, in close proximity to the courthouse in the georgia state capital -- federal court houses in georgia state university, including
student dormitories. security concerns were escalated this weekend by the rhetoric of former president trump at a public event in texas. specifically he said quote, if these radical, vicious, racist prosecutors do anything wrong or illegal, i hope we are going to have in this country the biggest protests we've ever had in washington d.c., in new york, and atlanta and elsewhere, because our country and elections are corrupt. this rhetoric is more alarming in light of the statements at the same event regarding those convicted of crimes for actions against the capitol on january six 2021. if elected president in 2024 he may pardon people who have been convicted of crimes related to the illegal acts at the u.s. capitol that day. and she makes this very direct ask of the fbi quote, i am asking that you immediately conduct a risk assessment of the fulton county courthouse and government center, and that you provide protective resources to include intelligence and federal
agents. it's imperative that they're placed well in advance of the convening of the special purpose grand jury on may 2nd, 2022. this is the district attorney of fulton county, georgia, who has opened an investigation to whether state laws were broken when the president pressured state officials and georgia to overturn falsify results in that state. this is her asking the fbi for assistance, including federal agents to protect her and her staff during their investigation of president trump. that's where we are. and that is a heck of a picture of where our democracy is at and where the de facto leader of the republican party is leading the country. but here's a practical question. what can the fbi actually do here? are they the right agency to ask for help, and whether they likely to do in response? joining us now is truck rosenberg, my friend, senior justice -- former fbi official. chuck, great to see.
thank you for being here tonight. >> my pleasure,rachel. >> is this letter addressed to the right entity? is the fbi the right agency to assess this kind of perceived threat from the da's office and potentially to provide help? >> partly no, and mostly s. let me explain that. the fbi is not in the business of securing court houses or other facilities. they don't harden buildings. it's not their expertise. i assume district attorney willis knows that. there's another interesting fact,rachel, which is that this letter was public. i imagine the press may have received before the fbi did. in all my time in government, if i needed something from another u.s. attorney elsewhere in the country or a chief or sheriff in my jurisdiction, i would never write a letter. i would pick up the phone and call and i would expect them to call me. but she wrote a letter. so she very clearly wanted to make it public that she was asking for help.
let me tell you the mostly yes answer to the question. throughout the country, including in atlanta, the fbi leads joint terrorism task forces. sitting on these jay tfx, including an atlanta, i suspect by the georgia bureau the investigation, the atlantic pd, the fulton county sheriff's office and all of their state and local partners, together as part of the atf they can certainly provide the district attorney which she needs and they can adviser about hardening the facility or securing the courthouse. they can give her intel from their own holdings. they can search their own holdings and query or task their informants, so it's a very good, thoughtful public way for the district attorney to say, i think they need help. >> and chuck, i was struck in the way that she plays the request. she explicitly mentions president trump promising pardons to people convicted
even violence events around the january 6th attack on the capitol. she's connecting the threat posed by trump calling for supporters to get in the streets if there is an indictment, essentially, and casting the aspersions that he cast all the various prosecutors are looking at. she's drawn a connection between that threat and the fact that he's promising pardons for people who have committed violent acts on his behalf. and wondered if you could just, with your law enforcement and fbi experience, your justice department experience, if you could talk about that nexus, whether that is a fair connection for her to draw and whether that does affect the nature of the threat. >> it is a fair connection for her to drop. it does affect the nature of the threat, andrachel, here's why. a defendant, somebody charged with a crime, makes a series of calculations, should they go to trial? should they plead guilty? if i plead guilty should i cooperate? they're all looking to minimize
their exposure, to mitigate the risk and to undo the harm. so many defendants, mostly guilty, and many defendants, most try to cooperate. but if the president of the united states, former, perhaps again, tells you i've got your back and i'm dangling pardons. in fact, i've given them out to people who have kept their mouth shut in the past. if they would be president of the united states dangles a pardon, maybe it changes the calculation of the defendant who would otherwise cooperate. maybe it changes the behavior of the supporter in the street who might not otherwise commit a crime. i think this is a pernicious threat. this is a dangerous thing to do. not just because it changes the calculations of people who have already been charged with a crime. it changes the calculations of people who may not have yet committed a crime. >> exactly. this pernicious is exactly the
right word. chuck rosenberg, former senior justice department and fbi official, chuck, as always thank you for your clarity and time. thanks for your help. >> my pleasure. thank you. >> we've got much more ahead tonight. just stay with us. we've got much more ahead tonight. just stay with us. just stay with us.
thanks for bringing me with you guys today, mr. and mrs. lopez. not a problem, josh. hey, you two. check out all these camera views in my silverado i can see in front of me, behind me, on either side of me. and it has this cam, so i can see if there's any funny business going on. you see any funny business going on? no, sir. let's have a great day! the chevy silverado offers eight cameras with up to 15 different views. find new views. find new roads. chevrolet. ♪ ♪ with up to 15♪ ♪fferent views.
age is just a number. and mine's unlisted.
try boost® high protein with 20 grams of protein for muscle health. versus 16 grams in ensure high protein. boost® high protein also has key nutrients for immune support. boost® high protein. i can assure you news report
from orlando, florida. some of the images in the speech in this clip are gross and they could be upsetting. i warn you. this contains some anti-semitic and white supremacist lather that you might not want to hear or want your kids to hear if you are watching with any kids, so that is your fair warning if you do not want to hear it. but the reason i'm showing it, even just a few seconds of it, is it does it's no good to pretend that this is not happening. if you take a look at a little bit of this you will understand why the citizens of orlando, florida, maybe a little shaken up today.
this is from news six orlando. >> no more jews! >> and women with neo-nazi vance flag piece for -- shouting words of white supremacist hate. this video is part of their active and open investigation into the demonstration, and this part of the video, a fight in the street. investigators say involved the demonstrators and a passerby. also over the weekend, troopers broke up this demonstration of hate on an overpass in orlando, telling news six it's illegal to obstruct traffic or hang signs on overpasses. >> that's too overt nazi guy the rings on two successive days this weekend out and brought daylight in central florida. at a shopping center, over the highway, just out harassing the locals. there's no word yet on whether there is going to be any charges against the nazis, either for the fight on saturday or for obstruction
traffic and hanging signs on overpasses on sunday. but to be honest, it's not even the potentially illegal parts of what they did that are the most disturbing, right? i'm gonnashowyou a tiny bit more of that video that is part of the investigation by the orange county sheriff now in florida. with the speed that i'm going toshowyou can get a sense of the way they were going after the locals. innocent bystanders trying to free people, out provoke them. this is just a few seconds but i warn you, it is a little gross. >> hale hitler for what he did. no more jew rats. white power. he's a jew, look at him! guess where you are going back to? >> believe it or not we are actually carefully cut that toshowyou the least vulgar excerpts we could find from that tape, right?
it still makes your skin crawl. i will also just note that when the nazi groups took to the highway overpasses yesterday, one of them, right next to the swastikas banner they treat a banner that said let's go brandon, because exactly the genius you think they are? they misspelled the word brandon. like that's a hard one. why were they saying let's go brandon? if you're and familiar with that phrase, it's like a kind of code among the pro trump crowd for f joe biden to become a rally in crime for pro trump folks all across the country and republican elected officials. but for whatever reason, this particular group of nazis feel like that is the right message along with all the kill the jews stuff, and for whatever reason they believe this is the right moment, to go out and gather in broad daylight. joining us now is carlos guillermo smith. his district includes the area
we did not see groups gathered. he said yesterday, hatred and antisemitism have no place in our community. i am appalled to see nazis rallying in the eastern orlando district that i represent. they are never welcome here. representative smith, i appreciate you taking the time taking the time to be here. thank you so much. >> thank you for having me,rachel. first, i'm sorry this happened in your district. it is -- at least at some level, it is a terrorizing thing for people to come up against this at the street corner or the local news. their commute to work, or whatever. let me ask how your constituents are reacting to this? the community reaction, what's it been? chiraz >> folks in the east orlando district that i represent near the university of central florida were appalled. i remember getting tagged and getting texts and getting posts on my social media feed that it was happening in waterford lakes. it's a place that i am very
familiar with. it's near my east orlando home. and folks were really alarmed and scared that this was actually happening in their community. like i said before in my social media posts that you've read. this type of hatred and antisemitism is not welcome here in orlando. orlando is a really diverse community that is an inclusive community, and accepting community. these neo-nazis that were rallying around orlando, they don't represent who we are, but it's not those of us here in orlando that should be concerned and alarmed, all floridians should be concerned. we are seeing a rise of extremism and white supremacy in our state. we all have to understand that that did not happen here overnight. according to the southern poverty law center, florida is number two in the nation for the number of hate groups that are based in our state.
that number is growing. we also know that unfortunately, there were more floridians that were arrested and that are seeing charges brought against them who were involved in the violent insurrection on january 6th in the nation's capital and many of those individuals were tied to some of these groups like the proud boys, and so it's really incumbent on folks to speak out and announce this type of hatred and bigotry, and really just kind of be aware and open their eyes to this rise of extremists and hateful behavior in our area. >> were any of these groups at all recognizable to you? has there been previous white supremacist activity like this in your district or any -- is there any sense of how much these guys were usual suspects with the sort of thing? or was this a surprise? were these strangers? >> we understand that one of
the groups that was involved, one of their leaders is based and kissing me, which is just around the corner from the east orlando district that i represent. we also saw in south florida, leaflets, papers of anti-semitic documents and flyers that were being left in our communities that were promoting the scene, hateful messages. i think watson port and to contextualize here is what are we doing in our state that is potentially affecting the rise in hatred and extremism in florida? our legislature right now is actively considering proposals pushed by governor desantis to shield floridians from this comfort or guilt by censoring conversations about race and lgbtq identities in our schools and and our workplaces.
somehow, some of these extremists and white supremacists are getting the message that it is okay for them to be public with their hatred and antisemitism. that they should come out of the shadows, because we are seeing this rise in extremism and it's incumbent upon all elected officials. republican and democrat to unequivocally condemn this type of hatred and ask why are individuals feeling empowered, these neo-nazis, to come out from the shadows and why has florida become such a haven for anti-semitic extremism white supremacists? >> the state representative, carlos guillermo smith. representative smith, i appreciate you being here. i'm sorry this happened in your district. it's a pleasure to have you here and be able to speak out about it. thank you. >> thank you,rachel. i would also encourage your viewers who want to beat back
against this type of hatred and antisemitism to donate to the holocaust center of central florida, because we think that education is such an important part of combatting this type of hatred. >> also a good point. in that it will drive crazy those guys who showed up in orlando today to know that anybody outraged by them it's not just outraged and scared but actively contributing to a cause like that. thank you, sir. much appreciated. we will be right back. stay with us. appreciated appreciated we will stay with us what is this nightmare? it's how some people describe... shingles. a painful, blistering rash that could interrupt your life for weeks. stay with us forget social events and weekend getaways. if you've had chickenpox, the virus that causes shingles is already inside of you. if you're 50 years or older ask your doctor or pharmacist about shingles. ♪
(mail recipient 1) thank you. that's open. if (mail recipient 2) older all the mail is open. (mail recipient 4) so this one's open too. (delivery man) yeah, that one's open. (mail recipient 5) why are you delivering mail to me that's open? (delivery man) don't worry nobody read them. (mail recipient 6) and that's okay? (delivery man) oh that looks kind of serious. (mail recipient 6) you cannot just bring me mail that's already opened. nyquil severe gives you powerful relief for your worst cold and flu symptoms, on sunday night and every night. nyquil severe. the nighttime, sniffling, sneezing, coughing, aching, stuffy head, best sleep with a cold, medicine.

♪ limu emu and doug.♪ and it's easy to customize your insurance at libertymutual.com so you only pay for what you need. isn't that right limu? limu? limu? sorry, one sec. doug blows several different whistles. doug blows several different whistles.
[a vulture squawks.] there he is. only pay for what you need. ♪liberty, liberty, liberty, liberty♪ [bacon sizzles] [bacon sizzles] ♪ [electronic music plays] ♪ [bacon sizzles] ♪ [electronic music plays] ♪ woo! here is one of the best follow new stories i've ever done. today for the first time in my life i've acutely aware that tomorrow is the start of prom season and ireland. these guys, these shrimp like things with black globally ice, prongs, the commercial fisherman in ireland get their prong quota and get to go start fishing for these. the reason we all know the snow
is because the start of prong season in ireland this year or this month was under a very very unique threat of government of russia having announced the russian need it was going to conduct live fire large-scale military drills off the irish coast this week. right in the place where these fishermen troll for prongs and make their living. we've been talking about the story a lot on theshowabout how the small group of irish fishermen in cork threatened to disrupt the russian military exercises, they said they were going to plan and send a fleet of 60 fishing trawlers into those waters starting tomorrow, because tomorrow is the start of prong season. i said they would stay there even though that would put them right in the middle of russia's war games. one of the protesting irish fishermen told cnn quote everyone has mortgages, they have to be paid, follow the fish and make a living. that's all we want to do.
now they're going to get to do just that after a weeklong standoff that was going to and who knows where with russia still insisting on menacing the nation of ukraine with a huge troop buildup on ukraine's borders. there is no one place in the world where russia has backed down militarily. russia has announced that they will no longer hold their wargames off the irish coast within the boundaries of where the irish fishermen make their living. it will still do their military exercises but way further out to sea and out of the fisherman's way. they have caved to the irish fishermen of county cork. when prong season starts tomorrow it will be free of the threat of a russian life fire naval drill, which is of course all the fishermen wanted. follow the fish. cours all the fishermen wanted all the fishermen wanted follow the fish. if it's got to be clean, it's got to be tide.

(naj) at fisher investments, our clients know we have their backs. (other money manager) how do your clients know that? (naj) because as a fiduciary, it's our responsibility to always put clients first. (other money manager) so you do it because you have to? (naj) no, we do it because it's the right thing to do. we help clients enjoy a comfortable retirement. (other money manager) sounds like a big responsibility. (naj) one that we don't take lightly. it's why our fees are structured so we do better when our clients do better. fisher investments is clearly different. mission control, we are go for launch. um, she's eating the rocket. ♪♪ lunchables! built to be eaten. (vo) when you are shopping for a new vehicle, how do you know which brand you can trust? with subaru, you get kelley blue book's most trusted brand winner, seven years in a row. in fact, subaru has won most trusted brand for more consecutive years than any other brand.
no wonder kelley blue book also picked subaru as their best overall brand. once again. it's easy to love a brand you can trust. it's easy to love a subaru. the pandemic made teaching and learning really hard. but instead of working to help students safely return to the classroom, the san francisco school board focused on renaming schools and playing politics. and they've even saddled our district that's going to do it for us with a $125 million deficit. our children can't wait for new leadership. here's our chance for a fresh start. on february 15th, please recall school board members collins, lópez and moliga before our kids fall even further behind.
tonight. again, i'm broadcasting from home and everything looks like this because i had a covid exposure. i have tested negative so far but i cannot wear a mask to the studio to do this job, so that's why i'm broadcasting from home. it's just so i don't accidentally expose anyone network. that's why i'm here. nothing to worry about. i don't know how to do makeup, so my face looks like a light bulb with eyebrows. we will try to fix that in time for tomorrow night'sshow. but no promises. i'll see you again then. now it's time for the last word with lawrence o'donnell. good evening, lawrence. the last w>> good evening, rach.