brakes too hard on the growth we have had, which you have been writing about, it has been remarkable. paul krugman, as always, wonderful to get a bit of your expertise. thank you. >> thank you. thank you. >> thank you.   that is "all in" on this wednesday night. therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. good evening,rachel. good evening, chris. i'm sorry i teased about your sweats. >> i think they are sweetbo and stylish sweat, my wife got them for me for my birthday and it is 2022, third year of the pandemic and i took my kid to the baseball practice and rolled through on my sweats and i changed now, but that's where we are. >> is it like a matched set? is it like ga ran malls? >> no i'm not quite a tony soprano yet but i am definitely
on my way there. >> all respect to you, chris. no problem. well done, my friend.   and coming from a person with has been wearing the exact same thing on tv for 13 straight years, like i can criticize anyone.   anyway, glad you're here with us. thanks for joining us this hour. you know how when you go to the star, hardware store, grocery store, whatever, sometimes you still get individual price tags that are stickers that are stuck on to each individual thing you might buy? but also sometimes, i feel like increasingly now there isn't an individual price tag stuck on to each thing and instead just a label on the shelf, a price label on the shelf where that item is sitting and it tells you what that item cost, i feel that has been changing over time, you find it particularly at big box stores, big chain stores like home depot and stuff. well, i asked. i bring this up. because there is an international chain that's kind of like home depot, in
particular it's in lots and lots of countries in europe, it's hardware, house wears, home improvement, gardening stuff, a little like a home depot and called leroy merlin. well, as of last week, if you popped in to your local leroy merlin store in poland, let's say you wanted to buy a new broom and dust pan, you might have been surprised if you were paying attention closely you might have been surprised when you look at thelo price of this item to see this. as you see here, the items, the brooms, or the dust pan, standing up in the bin and you can see there is a price tag on the bin that's marked at 21.50. but what's the description of what this is? remember, this is poland. so we've translated it here on the left side of the screen, you can see the original in the polish as it was posted on the right-hand side of the screen, that's the translation, it describes for what is described as kit for sweeping your guilt away and in smaller print, leroy
merlin supports the russian invasion. same store, here's the display of hammers in that store. and actually, in this one, you can see sort of like normal versus what has changed, the tag on the hammer on the right, in polish, that's the original tag, itpo says carpentry which makes sense because it is a hammer but the tag on the left, that one has been switched out and it says for killing. and then in the small print, just there with the price, just aboveh the price, 51.99, it sa leroy merlin supports genocide in ukraine. it says that same thing here on this, i think it is a table saw from that same store, you can see the tag there kind of underneath the shelf, it says leroy merlin supports genocide in ukraine. they perfectly matched it to the font and the size of the normal signage in the store. which is just posted there like it is a normal thing. god forbid you wanted to buy a trash can in that same store, heretr it is, marked it, 21.50,
but this one has been relabel and what this says in polish is bin for corpse. and again, in small sort of tiny print next to the price tag, leroy merlin supports the russian invasion. when vladimir putin launched his unprovoked war, unprovoked invasion of neighboring ukraine, one of the first things that happened is businesses all over the world including american businesses pulled out of russia, pulled up stake, closed their stores in russia, even big guy gant pick businesses like western oilga major, they all pulled out of russia immediately so as to not inadvertently and indirectly assist in the neighboring war effort as they attacked a neighboring country. this chain of stores, this leroy merlin chain of stores, they did not pull out of russia, when
russia invaded ukraine, they shut their stores in ukraine and kept the stores open in russia and announced plans to expand operations in russia given everyone else is pulling out and leroy merlin's employees were reportedly horrified by this decision and protested to the company but now as part of the protest about how this company has behaved, leroy merlin storeed are transformed one by one into well harbored surprises for shoppers. about how to think of that business and what they sell. for killing. corpse bin. for sweeping away your guilt. this is just in the last few days. last week, that we learned about this effort in poland. it got picked up in the wall street. journal and elsewhere. and in ajo much more risky environment to do something like this, we are seeing russian does this, russian citizens inside russia where putin has made it a criminal offense to criticize
this war, look what they're doing, inside a russian grocery store, you can see on the shelf there, instant coffee on the top shelf there 400 rubles, five buck force the jar but the description doesn't say instant coffee, the description says the russian army has bombed an art school in mariupol, around 400 people were hiding in it from shooting. that's what it says next to the instant coffee. >> here's a display of picnic candy bars. again, in a russian supermarket. 14 rubles and the description of that product, it says russian soldiers did not let 14 trucks with humanitarian cargo into the kherson oblast. peaceful civilians there need food and medicine. these replaced price tags in the russian supermarkets have started to turn up and social media and reporters documenting them. but now we've got kind of a master list, a grid of them that have reportedly been created by
a russian feminist anti-war group founded the day after russiath invaded ukraine. again, this is a home-grown group of russians, that are doing what they can, to try to speak out against the war, and as you see, there are a whole bunch of these, 15 of these that they made, but you can see how under the radar they are, right, they look just like the kinds of price tags that you see on supermarket shelves and you wouldn't notice unless you looked carefully and you look carefully and we translated these, this one the price tag is 20 rubles and what's the item for sale there, it says the russian army has destroyed over 20 medical establishments in ukraine. here's another one. price tag, zero ruble, that might stand out to you, but then what's the description here, it says people i know are hiding from russian bombings in the metro, zero of them are nazis, stop the war. here's one that is listed at 4300 rubles. this is about roughly about 50
bucks. it says stop the war. in the first three days 4300 russian soldiers died. why is this not being talked about on tv? another, price tag 80 rubles. a description here says russian war forces have destroyed 80% of the city of mariupol. what for? i'llshowyou one more. this one has a price tag eight ruble, quote, i haven't been in touch with my sister from ukraine for eight days. i don't know what has happened toi her. stop the war. the group that put these out, implicitly encouraging russians to print them out and put them up on supermarket shelves in that country. that put this out said on their telegram channel, by replacing something very routine with something alien and unusual, weshowthat there is not a single place in our country thater will not be affected by the war. we do not let people simply
close their eyes to what is happening. these arewh russian citizens inside russia, now illegally trying to get this word out, illegally trying to seek their stated opposition to putin and his war, into some place, some place in civil society, some place in every day life where other russians might see it and might know that other people are against the war, too. and they're being arrested for it. yesterday, a man was arrested for replacing price tags in a supermarket reportedly, the homemade signs that say no to war, heha is facing ten years i prison, according to the local press. today, a young woman in saint petersburg, an artist, was ordered held in prison until june, that's pre-trial detention before she will go on trial, to face ten or potentially even 15 yearsnt in prison. for allegedly putting notes on price tags in a st. petersburg supermarket, notes in her case that allegedly describe what
russia has bombed in mariupol. remarkably, we have this photo of some of her friends turning up at the police station, to bring her, to support her and it is hoped this woman would be released after the closed door court hearing today but honestly if your friend is facing a decade in prison, specifically for putting a note on a price tag, a note containing true information, it takes some bravery for you to evenshowup at the police station to support your friend for having done that, but look, these people did it. and this was her being brought out of that closed door court hearing today before they did take her off to jail. [ applause ]
>> and then they take her away. but it's remarkable that russians were willing toshowup at the police station toshowtheir support for her, to applaud for her. given the threat to them for being seen to support someone who said something true about putin's war. credit to "the wall street journal" reporters in russia for their reporting on that and credit to amnesty international as well for staying on the case of this young woman who is looking at a decade of potentially 15 years in prison for putting true information next to a price tag in a russian supermarket. because what else can you do? what is going to stop putin from grinding away at ukraine in this war, from more days, more weeks, maybe more months, what is going to scop him from killing thousands more, 10,000 more civilians? we don't know. but we do know that some russians are trying.
it is illegal for them to speak against the war. it's illegal for the russian media to even describe it as a war. but russians are still trying. and they're being arrested for it. but they're still trying. in ukraine today, we learned that ukrainian forces have succeeded in stopping one part of the russian war. one part that apparently maybe threatening us as well. this is an interesting story that has evolved in a sort of scary direction over the course of the day today. the first reports came in this morning, that russia had finally unleashed one of the things that everybody has been kind of waiting to see from them in this war, they unleashed or tried to unleash a major cyber attack against ukraine. russia after all has used cyber attacks against ukraine like, you know, for target practice, in recent years. you will recall they shut down the electrical grid in ukraine in the winter of 2015 and did it again in the winter of 2016.
the united states government, the u.s. justice department actually indicted six russian military intelligence officers, six gru officers, in 2020, and even have that fbi wanted poster from that indictment. the u.s. indictment of the six russians for them being part of the unit to shut down the electrical grid in ukraine twice and cyber attacks on the last french presidential election and cyber attacks on the 2018 olympics, the u.s. justice department indicted those six russian officers from that military hacking group in 2020. are they going to ever face trial? well, as long as those guys stay in russia, the u.s. is not going to arrest them but that is a live indictment and those russian military officers are wanted in the united states. but today, early today, the ukrainian authorities announced that that same russian military hacking unit, the one that we have all of the officers under indictment from, that same hacking unit just tried the
biggest cyber attack yet on ukraine, since russia launched this invasion. what happened is they had apparently updated and made worse the same bug, the same cyber tool that russia used to take down the electrical grid in ukraine, six and seven years ago. they made it so that it would target this time multiple major ukrainian power stations. and then once they took out the power, by shutting down those station, apparently this thing was programmed, the bug was programmed to wipe the computers in those facilities. so once the power was shut down, the computers in the facilities couldn't be used to get it back up. there would be no way to turn on backup systems or otherwise recover from the outage so it would be a wholesale electrical outage in ukraine that couldn't be repaired. and this massive attack was primed, to turn off the power in ukraine, for millions of people,
this past friday night at about 5:00 p.m. friday night local time. the reason it didn't happen is apparently ukrainian authorities caught it in time and they defeated the attack and disclosed the details about it publicly today. and that raises all sorts of interesting questions about, how good the russians are at this, we know they've been very ambitious about this, they put a lot of resources into it, how good are they at this, particularly against an enemy who knows they're coming, and has been fighting them for a long time. there's an interesting question, as to whether the big conventional war that russia is waging and losing, whether that makes them any worse at cyber, whether that diverts resources they might otherwise be using to be good at these kinds of attacks and raises interesting questions about how good the ukrainian defenses are, particularly after they been hit by the russians so many times in the past and they have been invaded and the world is on their side raises the questions how much the ukrainians have been able to avail themselves from help from friendly
countries around the world including the united states. fascinating stories. it raises all sorts of interesting questions. and i will say as these things go, this is a sort of understandable one. this is a fairly easy one for those of us who aren't that tech minded about these things. i know cyber stories can stifles be hard but in this case, all of us get it, the intended harm is shutting off the electricity in the country and something we can relate to and understand exactly how bad the threat would be. the odds of that, the malware that russia is using here to carry out these attacks is something called industroyer 1. and now industroyer 2. and it speaks for itself what it is intendsed to do. a memorable name. as we've been following the story from this morning into today, the story took another twist tonight. a twist that brings it much closer to home.
todd tonight, this joint security alert has been issued by the fbi, the national security agency, the department of homeland security and the department of energy. this is a big urgent joint security alert, just released tonight, and it is a technical alert, so i'm not going to quote from it too much directly because it is all of this technical stuff but the a. p. i thought summed it up well. they described this alert as quote warning of the discovery of malicious cyber tools that the agency said are capable of gaining full system access to multiple industrial control systems here in the united states and in north america. and in other words, the u.s. government tonight, is urgently warning that someone, they're not saying who, but presumably russia, has deployed malicious weapons that could shut down u.s. infrastructure. specifically they say this thing is targeted at energy infrastructure in north america, to get more specific than that, it is reportedly targeted at
liquefied natural gas facilities, and our electrical grids. one security company says we should understand the threat this way, telling the a. p. that this malware could be used to shut down critical machinery, sabotage industrial prophecies and disable safety controllers leading to physical destruction of machinery that could lead to the loss of human lives. cybersecurity, veteran cybersecurity reporter, nicole prologue who we have turned to multiple times on thisshowto explain things in plain english for those of us without a tech background might not otherwise get, when it alert came out tonight, she put an even finer point on it that puts a shiver down your spine, she linked to this new joint alert from the u.s. government tonight, she said this, quote, here we go. new unnamed state hackers are infecting u.s. prose koll infrastructure like electrical grid operators with custom tools
capable of worst case scenario attacks. there is no soft pedaling it, she said. this is very serious. joining us now is nicole, cybersecurity journalist, author, also now an adviser to the u.s. cybersecurity infrastructure security agency which is the house of homeland security, and thanks for being with us tonight, thanks for taking time. >>rachel, good to see you. you set this up well, you and i have had conversations for years now about potential russian attacks on the grid and we've seen what they have done in ukraine and the reason you and i know we are in a heightened threat landscape right now is because we know they've had the access, we know that they have the capabilities, to shut the power down, we've seen it in ukraine, and where they have not had, until now, is the geopolitical impetus to pull the trigger and so there's some rel really interesting questions about the timing of these attacks right now.
>> now, i said presumably russia, when i was describing what this alert was about tonight, and you just mentioned russia in summarizing it that way, there isn't anything in the actual security alert from these agencies that names, russia, correct? why would that be? and why do you think it might be safe to assume that is who they're talking about? >> well, there's a lot going on right now so just in ukraine, it appears to be the gru. this is the russian military hackers that have taken down the ukrainian grid twice before. they have shown up here in probes, let's call them at our power systems in the past. what was reported today and the department of energy, the nsa advisory, basically said that something very similar to what is happening in ukraine is happening here. but that the tools are highly customized. which make it much harder to
attribute. so no one is coming out and saying this is russia, this is the gru, we are in still very early days here and it is really important to give investigators the time they need to attribute these attacks but when we have seen this level of highly customized malware before, on an industrial-controlled network, a critical infrastructure network, it is always generally been russia. the attack that comes to mind was on petro chemical facility, a couple of years ago, where hackers using customized bespoke code that had never been seen before, used that code to do something very serious, which was neutralize the safety locks at this petrochemical plant, basically the very last thing that can stave off an explosion. and it took a long time for others to attribute that attack
to a graduate research university near moscow essentially an arm of the kremlin, so when you see this highly customized malware, you always have to stop and let these investigations take time, but given the situation we are in right now, with the russian invasion of ukraine, with sanctions, we have just been saying that the more we tighten the screws on russia, the more likely it is that at some point, putin will retaliate, on the west, and one very likely method of retaliation is cyber attacks on our critical infrastructure. >> nicole, when this came out tonight, and i saw you writing about it online, you linked to the report itself, and i mean this is, you know, this is a public-facing document, and it's, you can download it from their web site, it's not something that they're keeping secret or only giving to people who are in the know, and you writing about it on twitter tonight, you said read the advisory in full and do
everything they say now. who is that advisory targeted at? who should take steps to make the kind of technical changes, very technical changes that are described in this alert, in order to protect the united states from this sort of threat? >> well, think the number one thing is that this is aimed toward the technical community, right? but it is also aimed toward senior leadership at these organizations. you need to empower your chief information security officer. you need to give them the money and the tools right now, more than ever, to log what is happening on their note work, to hunt what is happening on their network, to flag any suspicious activity, because this is a very serious threat. these are attacks on electrical operations. we mentioned one company, snyder electric in there, whose devices have been compromised in this attack, and those devices are used to control key aspects of
the grid, of manufacturing, of automation, of pipelines, and so if these hackers have the ability to take over those devices, you can imagine how they can be used for nefarious purposes. the key thing is, really with this advisory, if you're an executive or if you are in i.t. leadership, at any of these critical infrastructure organizations, it is really, really important. >> nicole, cybersecurity journalist, author and adviser to the u.s. cybersecurity, infrastructure security agency at homeland security. nicole, thank you as always for your clarity on this. couldn't do it without you. appreciate it. >> thank you and it is so good to see you. >> thank you. it's good to be back. we got much more to get to tonight. stay with us. o get to tonight. stay with us one by poise® is our first pad that handles period weeks and bladder leaks. which is just what you need while you handle... ♪ [upbeat music] ♪
stay clean, fresh and dry while you handle it all. find it in the fem care aisle.
(woman) oh. oh! hi there. you're jonathan, right? the 995 plan! while you handle it all. yes, from colonial penn. your 995 plan fits my budget just right. excuse me? aren't you jonathan from tv, that 995 plan? yes, from colonial penn. i love your lifetime rate lock. that's what sold me. she thinks you're jonathan, with the 995 plan. -are you? -yes, from colonial penn. we were concerned we couldn't get coverage, but it was easy with the 995 plan. -thank you. -you're welcome. i'm jonathan for colonial penn life insurance company. this guaranteed acceptance whole life insurance plan is our #1 most popular plan. it's loaded with guarantees. if you're age 50 to 85, $9.95 a month buys whole life insurance with guaranteed acceptance. you cannot be turned down for any health reason. there are no health questions and no medical exam.
and here's another guarantee you can count on: guaranteed lifetime coverage. your insurance can never be cancelled. just pay your premiums. guaranteed lifetime rate lock. your rate can never increase. pardon me, i'm curious. how can i learn more about this popular 995 plan? it's easy. just call the toll-free number for free information. (soft music) ♪
two stories breaking in the
last few minutes which we will try to get to right now. luckily we have a guest on deck who is actually a really good person to talk to about both of these stories. the first story is breaking news out of the russian war in ukraine tonight. there are reports circulating starting this afternoon and they're increasingly circulating as we get later into the evening that ukraine has hit an important russian navy ship off the coast of odesa. this is the footage that we got of that ship. this is file footage. a cruiser called the muskva, the russian word for moscow and moscow is important, it is the flagship of the russian navy's fleet in the black sea. it's their flag ship vessel. now, the governor of odesa says ukrainian forces hit that ship with two missiles and caused serious damage to it. nbc news has not confirmed ukraine's account. but i need to tell you that russian news agencies have started to report something
along the same lines. pushing out stories that that ship has been seriously damaged and in fact, the crew has been evacuated off of it. now, those russian news sources are not attributing the damage to the ship to a ukrainian missile strike, they're saying it was a fire on board that set off ammunition, who knows, but if the flag ship of the russian fleet is out of commission in ukraine, that is a big deal for the russian war in ukraine. and if ukraine's account of how the ship got damaged is true, if they have effectively sunk it with a missile strike, that is an even bigger deal. we'll bring you more on this as we learn it. but i want to tell you about this other story which is also breaking. this actually started last night, we learned that trump council cipollone will be talking to the january 6th investigation. that apparently did happen today and just as we got on the air
tonight a new report from "the new york times" saying, interestingly, perhaps bizarrely that trump himself authorized this, authorized his white house council pat cipollone and patrick philbin to speak with the committee and why would doe that? the times said these men were not under oath when they testified and a future of future meetings between them and the investigators. but the fact remains they did reportedly meet with the investigation today, these are two top white house lawyers, and that in itself is news, because i mean they agreed to do it, since the january 6th verse started, we've seen -- investigation started, we've seen one trump official after another saying they can't talk to the investigators citing some various of privilege, right, citing executive privilege or attorney-client privilege. trump officials say they can't talk to the investigators because they worked in the white house or because they were lawyers who worked on trump's
legal team. well, now we've got the white house's two top lawyers talking with investigators, and a few minutes ago, trump authorized them to do it. so again, both of these stories are breaking within the last hour. what happened here? what does this mean for the former white house officials who refused to testify? and what is this breaking news on the ukrainian war, what does it mean in terms of ongoing capabilities? these are disparity, disparate stories, virginia congresswoman and navy veteran, a member of the january 6th investigation, and the armed services committee. congress woman, thank you so much for being here. >> thank you. >> let me, i'm sorry to draft you to talk about these two disparate stories at once, i would like to talk first if you
don't mind a little bit about what we know about this news out of ukraine. i don't know that the u.s. government or indeed any u.s. news agency has confirmed these reports that the russian flag ship vessel of the black sea fleet might have been sunk or very seriously damaged. but as a navy veteran and somebody in the armed services committee, can you talk to us a little of what it would mean if these reports are born out? >> i don't think this is independently verified but it is interesting coming from the russians that they indicated that it was a fire and led to an explosion and the crew of 500 has been evacuated from the ship and meanwhile ukraine also claims that they launched two long range antisurface cruise missile, the neptune missile that struck the ship and that part has not been truly verified but the impact of it, whatever caused the explosion, caused the fire, caused the disabling of the ship will have a huge impact for russia's ability to control
its forces. the other ships that it has within the black sea. and we did see a few weeks ago, and it was verified that russian ship, an amphibious ship was struck by the ukrainian, and damaged, and so these things, you know, appear to continue to disable and remove some of russia's ability to continue this onslaught, against, ukraine, and specifically there have been concerns about how they could use their forces that have been amassed in the black sea to strike against port cities such as odesa and others, so i think it would be encouraging to know that they have perhaps lost this capability. >> a ship of that size, too, as you say, a crew of 500, a vessel that is considered to be the flag ship of the fleet, it's got to have a psychological impact as well as a praekt cal impact, again if indeed these prorps are born out and we don't want to get too far ahead of the news as these things are not confirmed. but let me switch gears and ask
you about what happened today with the january 6th investigate. obviously, these interviews today, with the white house counsel and his deputy from the trump year, former white house counsel, they were behind closed doors and i know you can't tell us specifically what was discussed but can you tell us anything about the fact that they decided to speak with you, particularly given the claims of privilege that so many other trump officials have used to try to avoid the committee's questions? >>rachel, i think the point, we had 860 interviews at this point, and the vast majority of people who have been approached by the committee, and come forward, either voluntarily, or by subpoenas issued, to them from the committee, and had chosen to do the right thing, toshowup and speak to congress and provide information, and you know, you showed pictures of three specific people who have refused to do that, and who have levied contempt charges against, because apparently there were some people close to the situation, close to the former
president who think they're above the law and they don't have toshowup and they don't have to speak to the committee but the truth is we're getting a massive amount of information and facts from those who are cooperating. >> is it significant, or is it true, to to your knowledge, that former president trump authorized these two white house lawyers to meet with investigators and how should we understand the importance of that? >> you know, you said it is breaking news, i can't speculate on that, and if it is true, i would say amongst many other things that we've been encountered over the last several year, it is to understand the thought process but we know that his daughter and son-in-law did voluntarily come and speak before the committee and provide evacuate ule information about the events on january 6th and surrounding that day. and it is few and far between. the people who have chosen not to speak to the committee and to
obstruct and i think that the committee is getting the information we need to be in a very thorough picture of everything that led up to january 6th. that happened on that day, and you know, the purpose of our committee is to provide recommendations for something like this, an attempted coup, an insurrection can never happen again in the future. >> should we still be expecting that there will be public hearings, that have been discussed before the turn of the year, and earlier this year, that we should expect sometime in the spring, that your committee would do hearings, televised hearings, open door hears so the public can see your work and see what you learned. are you working toward that? >> certainly. that's what we're working toward. and the purpose of this investigation is to truly share this information with the public so everyone can understand all of the events that transpired, the dangers that they pose to the future and we are still aiming towards potentially late may, early june as the time frame we're looking at, so again, those hearing, our entire
goal has always been, to provide this information to the public, and a really thorough and easily understandable way. >> virginia congresswoman, navy veteran, member of the january 6th investigation, thank you for being designated hitter for us tonight on these multiple stories as they broke, i really appreciate your time and your expertise. thank you. >> thank you.   much more knew news ahead. stay with us.


let's do it. we already hit the bank, the museum, the jewelry store. where to next? next, we save hundreds with xfinity mobile.
huh? -mmm. you know, unlimited data. oh. nationwide 5g at no extra cost. [ chuckles ] that's a steal. wait, wait, wait. are we stealing the safe? we're saving so much, it's like stealing. well, you're the tech expert webs. is it reliable? you tell me. wah ping. it's reliable and fast. wireless savings so good, even the bad guys love it. switch to xfinity mobile today. and see dreamworks "the bad guys."
as we talked about last night here on theshow, one of the things coming down the pike in terms of however the war is progressing and changing the world, finland and sweden are moving quickly toward potentially joining nato, two new countries added to the nato alliance, finland has an 800 mile long land border with russia and invaded by soviet union in the past and sweden wants to stay out of it but putin waging war on ukraine has changed that in both countries and finland will likely go first and the prime minister of finland says she expects the decision to be made in her country about asking to join nato, quote, within weeks, not within months, her government presented its security review of the issue to their parliament today and the parliament is expected to vote soon to make the nato ask. i mean bottom line here, if putin started this war to try to push nato back from russia's
borders, he is accomplishing exactly the opposite, he will have a lot more nato on the borders when this is all over. and unless of course we decide to screw things up. the other nato countries actually have to vote to allow any new members to join the alliance. aaron blake writes in the "washington post" today about the possibility that the countries that is perhaps most likely to block that possibility might be us, because of our senate and the republicans within it, quote, joining nato isn't just a matter of finland and sweden deciding to become members, it is also about whether current members would agree to this. and the united states, that would require at least two-thirds of the u.s. senate to vote to ratify their membership. exactly how that debate would go down could be quite interesting especially in light of the republicans gop's significant drift in terms of skepticism of the process and trump himself.
and more than 30% of house republicans voted against a symbolic measure reaffirming support for nato. i mean on the one hand, it would be very unexpected for a nato member like the u.s. to block new countries joining the alliance. on the other hand, given the parties involved and given the weird trumpy feelings about putin in the republican party now, maybe this is a real thing to worry about? joining us now is "washington post" senior political reporter who wrote that piece for the "washington post," aaron blake, it's nice to see you. thank you for making time to be here tonight. >> thank you. >> i have oversimplified this a little bit, i acknowledge, but let me ask you, to correct me if i got any of the basic points wrong here, and you're basically raising the prospect because of internal republican party dynamics, and ideological shifts within the republican party, particularly in the trump era, they might not vote to let these two new countries join nato. >> look, i think that
conventional wiz wisdom is that republicans and congress more broadly, work on this pretty bipartisan basis, but also remember, that this is something that requires two-thirds majority in the senate, and this has been a consensus issue in the past. in 2003, 2004, there is actually unanimous, when there were seven countries joining. in 1999, 98, it was an overwhelming vote 80-19 and that was an interesting one, while it wound up being a very significant majority in favor there were concerns about this being provocative to russia and those who bipartisan concerns so i think if you overlay that on some of the shift away from nato and away from foreign alliances, in the republican party, you layer on top of that a president who has wrecked shop in nato to some degree, and has called into question that alliance, and according to his own advisers considered pulling out of it in the second term. i think there really is a law of unintended consequences when it comes to how this might play out. even if that might not
ultimately mean that this is in any real danger of failing in the u.s. senate. >> it was interesting, i think it was important that you noted, symbolic resolution expressing support for nato, where we have 30% of the house republican caucus vote no on that. even though it wasn't going to actually effectuate anything in the real world, simply toshoweffectively the spirit of the united states, in supporting this alliance, when it is under, as they stand united against the russian invasion. did you hear around that vote new arguments or new rationale from republicans in terms of why they might not stand with nato, even for something like that? >> well, a lot of it, there weren't a whole lot of explanations that came out. did you see some of the more long-established nato critics basically saying that they don't like the idea of being too
behold ton this alliance. i think what struck me though from. so other reactions that i saw from more rank and file member, freedom caucus type, was the idea that this commitment shouldn't be open ended and this is not something where we should be unequivocal for our continued support of nato and that's where i think we get into these issues if this comes to a head and if you see the leader of the republican party not necessarily opposing finland and sweden joining the alliance but maybe casting things in a more ambivalent way like he has in the past when it comes to ukraine joining nato and in 2015 noncommittal about that. it really is a situation in which there is going to be pressure on some of these republicans to tow that more nato skeptical line and it may not be so much in the senate, with more support, but the party as a whole could have
uncomfortable conversations if their leader doesn't come on board. and that's an open question. >> and if their leader doesn't come on board and nato skeptical and pro-putin in the analysis, and hopefully there is a higher political cost for that now but we'll know when we get. there aaron blake, senior political reporter for the "washington post," appreciate your analysis, appreciate your time here tonight. thank you. >> thank you.   more to come here tonight. we'll be right back. ou.   more to come here tonight. we'll be right back. home. but she can handle pickup, even when her bladder makes a little drop-off. because candice has poise, poise under pressure and poise in her pants. it takes poise.

i'm jonathan lawson here to tell you about life insurance through the colonial penn program. if you're age 50 to 85,
and looking to buy life insurance on a fixed budget, remember the three ps. what are the three ps? the three ps of life insurance on a fixed budget are price, price, and price. a price you can afford, a price that can't increase, and a price that fits your budget. i'm 54, what's my price? you can get coverage for $9.95 a month. i'm 65 and take medications. what's my price? also $9.95 a month. i just turned 80, what's my price? $9.95 a month for you too. if you're age 50 to 85, call now about the #1 most popular whole life insurance plan available through the colonial penn program. it has an affordable rate starting at $9.95 a month. no medical exam, no health questions. your acceptance is guaranteed. and this plan has a guaranteed lifetime rate lock so your rate can never go up for any reason.
so call now for free information and you'll also get this free beneficiary planner. and it's yours free just for calling. so call now for free information. and it's easier than ever to get your projects done right. with angi, you can connect with and see ratings and reviews. and when you book and pay throug you're covered by our happiness check out angi.com today. angi... and done.   more late-breaking news
tonight. this is interesting. this is a real u-turn, the department of justice has just announced a settlement over the trump police riot at lafayette park in washington, d.c. in the summer of 2020. you will remember this was amid the protests for the killing of george floyd, and trump then president, decided he would waddle through, lafayette park himself, so he could go hold a bible in front after church for a photo op, so that he could do that, federal law enforcement officers took off their nameplates, took off their insignia, and violently seized the park from nonviolent protesters. today, the justice department reached a settlement, to resolve portions of four civil lawsuits brought on behalf of people who were beat up by law enforcement that day. the lawsuits focussed in part on how officers had removed their name badges and their in nia. within 30 days the u.s. park police and u.s. secret service will implement major reforms and policy changes as a part of that
settlement, including visible identification of officers and limits on nonlethal support and procedures to facilitate safe card dispersal. the park police will require officers to wear fully visible badges and nameplates including on outer wear, tactical gear and helmets and implement guidelines concerning the use of nonlethal force and de-escalating tactics. these are changes and reforms that do not happen every day but this means that the park police and the secret service cannot never do what they did in lafayette park again and presumably set a standard for all law enforcement organizations. like i said, quite a u turn. we'll be right back. stay with us. u turn. we'll be right back. stay with us


xfinity mobile runs on america's most reliable 5g network, but for up to half the price of verizon, so you have more money for more stuff. this phone? fewer groceries. this phone? more groceries!
this phone? fewer concert tickets. this phone? more concert tickets. and not just for my shows. switch to xfinity mobile for half the price of verizon. that's a savings of over $500 a year. switch today.   before we go tonight, i want to underscore one thing that we heard from one of our guests
here tonight, a member of the january 6th investigation, i asked this evening if we're still expecting that the january 6th investigation will hold public hearing, televised hearings, open door hearings and she said yes and put a date on those, saying those are expected late may, early june. plan on it. all right, see you again tomorrow night. "way too early" with jonathan lemire is up next.   good morning. and welcome to "way too early." on this thursday, april 14th. i'm jonathan lemire. police have arrested the man believed to be responsible for the worst shooting in the history of the new york city subway system. frank james reportedly called police to turn himself in yesterday. one day after he allegedly opened fire on board a crowded train in brooklyn. shooting at least ten people, and leaving more than a dozen others injured. according to nbc news sources, james told the nypd dispatcher, quote, this is frank, you guys are looking for me, my phone is about