been a lot easier if he was quiet. but the fact that bill russell wanted to take upon his role, his platform his position to be able to speak for all black people is why it's so special and why we celebrate him today. >> kavitha davidson and -- etan thomas, that's all for us tonight. therachelmaddowshowstarts that is all for us tonightrachelmaddowshowstart good evening,rachel. >>go good evening, charles. thank you very much. it's good to see threw. >> good to see you, too.   thanks for joining us this hour. after the 9/11 attacks, it took about 10 years for the united states government to get osama bin laden, it happened in may, 2011, and now, as of tonight, we know it took another 11 years after that to get bin laden's brain, to get the man who was bin laden's number two and al qaeda at the time of 9/11 and took over as al qaeda's leader after bin laden was killed by u.s. navy seals. the string of attacks and murders attributed to amman al
zawhahiri is stomach churning.ch he was the ideological master behind behind the turn of al qaeda andnd groups like that toward indiscriminate mass murder of civilians anywhere, including muslims, all in the name of islamic piety and how he got there, we now, looking back at it, it seems like a straight shot, but if he dropped in at any time of his biography, you wouldn't have known, trained as a doctor, as a surgeon, a respected family in egypt, born and raised in cairo. by the time he was 15 years old he was a committed radical who wantedic to impose islamic theecacy by force all of 15 yearsfo old. when islamic militant disassassinate egypt's president anwar sadat at a military parade
in 1981, he was one of hundreds ofe islamic radicals who was tried and imprisoned and tortured for years in egyptian prisons. while there he became an informant, supplying information on hisin comrades, and released fromra prison in egypt in 1948 d even more radical than when he had gone in and nurtured the growth of his terrorist group between, he had literally founded as a teenager, it was called al jihad or islamic jihad and spent time after the release iner prison in saudi arabia, in pakistan, in afghanistan, and eventually came close withni a rich saudi arabian guy who in 1988 had founded his own terrorist organization. the saudi guy was wealthy enough that he was able to bankroll much of the movement himself. he also had great connections all across the arab world. he was a great recruiter to their cause.
al-zawahiri babe became the saudi guy's personal doctor whichy' gave them a personal bo beyond their ideological co-interests, after the two of them supplied and recruited the mujahedin fighters, in 1990, they went on to sudan and yemen to straeb establish training campingh for international terrorists. lifelong dream, in november 1993,fe the group, is islamic jihad tried to assassinate the prime minister of haegypt, they failed in that assassination attempt but they did wound and kill civilians instead. two years later in 1995, egyptian islamic jihad blew up the egyptian embassy in an pakistan, killed at least 15 people, wounded dozens of people. two years later, in 1997, zawahiri helped planned luxor
attack, a half dozen gunmen descending on a big egyptian tourist attraction before 9:00 in the morning november 1997, six gunmen spent 45 minutes methodically massacring the tourists at that tourist site in egypt including kids. people fromud egypt, people fro columbia, people from switzerlandmb and the u.k. and japan, and germany, 62 people murdered. zawahiri is the mastermind of that. that was 1997. 1998, he wrote what amounted to a declaration of war against america, he proclaimed that groupsoc like his and osama bin laden's group al qaeda and all of the islamic terrorist groups, he proclaimed were all united, as what he called the international front against crusaders and jews, not to put too fine a point on it. his declaration in february 1998 proclaimed it their mission to
target america, to target the united states of america and specifically to kill american peopleec anywhere in the world. that was february, 1998, that he wrote that declaration of war. later that same year, in august, 1998, they blew up the u.s. embassies in tanzania and kenna, more t than 4,000 people injure more than 200 people killed. in october 2000, they hit the uss cole, a guided missile zroir while it was being refuelled in yemen. i 17 u.s. sailors killed, 37 injured. the year after that, in june, june, 2001, al qaeda, bin laden's group, formally absorbed zawahiri's group, islamic jihad. he and osama bin laden from that point forward were no longer just fellowwe travelers and compatriots, now, as of june, 2001, al qaeda was it, zawahiri
was bin laden's second in command and informally his brain, his strategic thinker, his ideological guide, his doctor, the chief operating officer of al qaeda. two days before the 9/11 attacks, in an operation masterminded by zawahiri, a man named ma med, the afghanistan leader, opposed to the taliban, zawahiri wiped him out on september 9th, 2001, doing a huge favor to the taliban. in getting the taliban to himself, in debting the taliban to himself, and two days laider, laid down hell on the united states of america on september 11th, 2001, in pennsylvania, and new york city and the pentagon. this was the first wanted poster put out for aman al-zawahiri
from 9/11,hi october 2001, week after the attack, the reward for information leading to his capture at $5g million, that would soon quintuple to $25 milliono reward. theio largest reward offered fo anyonela on earth. after u.s. navy seal mission in 2001 took out osama bin laden, zawahiri became the head of al qaeda, and at that point, he became literallya, the most wand terrorist on the fbi's list of most wanted terrorists. and you can see if you look at the twon different wanted posters,er you can see that ove 20 yearsan plus, while the rewa did go up, you know, they didn't change the photo of him, they didn't change muchan about what they knew about him, or how to advise people to find him, but tonight, there is an update, tonight, they have updated the poster at long last. this was just changed this evening as we were prepping to get on the air, with a big red deceased across the bottom of it now. well, what we know is this.
amman al-zawahiri was back in afghanistan which in iritself w a story, a well-off neighborhood in the capital city of a bull, "the new york times" and the "washington post" are reporting that the house he was killed was owned by senior member of the taliban government known for having links to al qaeda, the man nacy name is hakani and a familiar name when it comes to kidnappings and mass murders and attacks in afghanistan over the past 20 years, the u.s. military no longer has anyone in afghanistan, the u.s. government was apparently able to obtain intelligence on zawahiri's where had beens dating back several months and specificallyac able get information on the pattern of life on the house where they knew hehe was staying dating al the way whack to april, and the reason that's important, the reason they were watching the pattern of life that the house, to confirm that he was there and to try to find the right way and right window to get him without getting anyone else. to get him and get him alone. president biden was briefed in
detailn on the prospects for a drone strikepe hitting that hou. intelligence community reportedly built a physical model of the house, that they wanted to hit, they used to that physical model toshowthe president their intentions and brief the president on how the mission might unfold. president biden said in remarks to the nation tonight that he gave the order a week ago that they could strike when the right time and the right circumstances arose. those right circumstances and right time apparently arose saturday night, just before 10:00 p.m. eastern. which was just after 6:00 a.m. sunday morning in kabul. it was reportedly two hell-fire missiles fired from a cia operated drone. the president said tonight there were noid other casualties othe than ammanes al-zawahiri himsel. the president also said this. >> the united states continues to demonstratete our resolve an our capacity to defend the american people against those who seek to do us harm.
we make it clear again tonight, that no matter how long it takes, no matter where you hide, if you are a threat to our people, the united states will find you and take you out. >> it has been 20 years and 10 months since al qaeda killed ki 3,000 americans on u.s. soil in the 9/11 attacks. it took 20 years and 10 months to get the two guys who ran al qaeda during that attack. astonishingly, the leader of the republican party, the party's last president and likely next presidential nominee said just this weekend, that quote, nobody's gotten to the bottom of 9/11. literally said that this weekend. nobody's gotten to the bottom of 9/11. what was that all about? well, it took 20 years and 10 months, but actually somebody definitively has gotten to the bottom of 9/11.
ayman al-zawahiri killed yesterday at the age of 71 with the blood of thousands and thousands of innocent people on his hands. joining us now, live from the white house, is john kirby, and until a few months ago, he was pressw secretary of the department of defenses and now spokesman for president biden's national security council and retired rearon admirable in the united states a navy. admiral kirby, i appreciate you making time for us tonight. anma historic night. >> absolutely,rachel. good to be with you a good day forod the country. >> let me ask ayyou, in my summy there in terms of what we know about what happened, both about mr.pe zawahiri's background and how you got him is, there anything that i've left out or that i got wrong is, there anything else that you tell us about how this mission unfolded. >> i think you did aon pretty gd job rolling out the history of who this man was and what he was responsible for and how he met his end, i can tell you, there was an awful lot of work done by the counter-terrorism and the
intelligencer- community to gets to this point. it was painstaking, meticulous, thoughtful work,ns and as you rightly pointed out in your opening,rachel, the president was kept informed throughout, finally made the decision in late, july 25th, specifically, and of course we executed him. and even though he had given the order on the 25th, the conditions needed to be right, and there were a lot of conditions. there was weather that needed to be factored in, of course and he needed to be where we thought he was based on his pattern of life and the president was very clear that he didn't want us to cause civilian casualties than factored into the conditions were right and when it was, we took the shot. >> with something like this, obviously, the only antecedent that comes to mind is that famous image of president obama and secretary of state clinton and others in the situation room, and that ultimately killed
osama bin laden and i have to ask you, in terms of historians looking back at this day, these briefings, these planning session, the president's decision process, was it gravely interrupted, was it a, was the process interrupted at all by thepr fact that the president h covid and he hasth been in isolation on and off during the time that this was all being decided? >> no, not a at all,rachel. no. i mean he worked right through his time with covid. in fact, he is still isolating now. i think as you know he has a rebound case here. no, it did not affect his decision making process at all. he was able to constantly stay in touch with his national security team throughout. no effect whatsoever. and i happened to be here in 2011, i was here at the white house, i was working for the chairman of joint chiefs of staff, when the mission to get bin laden went down, and so for me, this was also personally a nice book end to that. >> i have to ask you in terms of
what happens next here, do you believe, does the administration believe that the taliban knew zawahiri was in kabul, obviously the justification for invading afghanistan in 2001 was that the taliban was providing a safe havenba for the al qaeda oh, ahd of 9/11. did they know that he was back in afghanistan, back in kabul. >> we know that some senior leaders of the network were aware and we know that from the way that theyd tried to cover things up, over the last 24, 48 hours, and that's really about as far as i can go into this, but we have indications that some of them were aware. look, i mean al qaeda was on the ground in afghanistan, even when the presidentan decided to end that e war, and we knew that is correct and we talked about that. thatwe al qaeda was already re-establishing a presence wa there.re we also said that we werece goi to watch that very, very closely. and stay vigilant.
and make sure that we had the capacity from an over the horizon perspective, to deal with any threats to the homeland. mr. zawahiri's presence in kabul certainly met that test, because heul has been actively involvedn planning and plotting threats against our homeland going forward. >> one of the things that the president mentioned tonight int hispr remarks is that zawahiri s been recently making videos, calling for people to attack americans, and to attack u.s. interests. >> that's right. >> we've heard from senior administration officials that it is possible even after his death al enqaeda, or their confederat may release further zawahiri videos and banked ahead of his death, do you anticipate that will pose additional threats and raise the threat level for the united states inat terms of potential terror? >> it very well could. we could don't know how many videos he record and whether
there are some in the can but i is entirely possible that they could put that out there as a wayat to inspire for the future attacks, and future al qaeda planners, and plotters and so we're going to be watching for that as well, i can tell you, our vigilance is very high, and we're not going to be, you know, weto won't be caught offguard i in fact they do try to do that but we'll see, we just don't know if he has additional videos he released. >> let me ask you, in terms of being aware,d. as you said, tha at least some elements of the taliban, the regime in charge om afghanistan knew that zawahiri was there, their expressions sort of anger, or upset, that this strike happened, within their territory, and do you anticipate that the taliban themselves could try to mount some sort of retaliation, or if they do, are they capable of causing harms to u.s. interests? >> we will be watching real close,rachel. we don't have any indications right know, that that particular threat can manifest itself.
but look, the president was very clear tonight, as he has been quite frankly since the war in afghanistan ended, that we're going to stay vigilant, we have the capability and capacity to conduct over the horizon counter-terrorism strikes, we've proved that this weekend, and so i go back to what the president said, which is there's no greater responsibility that he feels, than for the safety of american, of the american people,an and our national security interests, around the world and i think again, we've proved that over the last couple of days, and we'll stay able and capable of proving that going forward, if in fact we have to do that. >> admiral john kirby, spokesman for president biden's national security council, sir, thank you for your time tonight, i feel like congratulations is not exactly thens right word here, t i think thank you probably is. so thank you, sir. >> you're welcome. thank you.   joining us now from london is richard engel, nbc news chief foreign correspondent who lass covered al qaeda and ayman
al-zawahiri, a man who knowed more than your average bear about the islamic radicalism in cairo and thanks for being up at o-dark thirty for us once again on this historic night. >> it t an historic night. and and i think it is a very important night and yes, i have been covering ayman al-zawahiri since the 1990st, i was in egypt when terrorist attacks were an increasing problem in the country, you mentioned the luxor attack, when a group of islamists went on a rampage and startedra massacring tourists i front of the monuments there, and then he decided to keep going, and heto joined up with osama bin laden, foundedin al qaeda, first, with the international front, against jews and crusaders, and to now, wede have come to where we are today. and i think there are really two
waysin of looking at it. weok just heard from admiral kirby, what we just heard was kind of a positive spin on it, itnd shows that the united stat is stillha capable, that as the taliban goes back on its deal, and clearly it was going back on its deal, or at least elements of the taliban were going back on the deal and welcomed in al qaeda, that they wouldn't be able to get away with it because america has eyes on and has the ability to carry out lethal strikes from the sky. so you can say the policy is working because if there is al qaeda infiltration or presence, the u.s. cana take care of it. but there's another way of looking ater it. it shows how confident and how arrogant one might say the taliban have become, that even after swearing that they would never host al qaeda leaders again, thatqa they would never back and w repeat the past, tha they don't just have an al qaeda leader, they have the al qaeda leader,ae he's hosted right in e center of kabul, he's there for months, and it shows that they
believe they can do whatever they want. i was in afghanistan, after u.s. troops withdrew from the company country, after the taliban drove them out and i met taliban leaders and they believed that what happened was a miracle, that they were given this victory because of a gift from god, that they were untouchable, you could look in their eyes, if you ever noticed, a lot of american reporters were going around with the taliban, there was no hostility, they were not just proud of what they had done and wanted toshowit off, they believed that this was a miracle and that it was their duty to showwa the world god's actions earth. so when you have that kind of mentality, you're not really intimidated by what the u.s. is threatening to. do you i say, well, we've gone through hard times in the past, and look where our faith brought us. so they had bin laden, they had
ayman al-zawahiri in the country nearah the presidential palace r months and the fact that u.s. got them still shows that u.s. intelligence is there and get informants to establish a pattern of lifeer inside the building, but over time, whether those informants be as good and able to find as other targets who are not necessarily as famous as ayman al-zawahiri who the united states has been tracking for decades. >> as youth lay that out, this obviously a very rude interruption, that the rev ry, that the taliban might have been under in terms of them believing that they were being, you know, that they were divinely inspired, and that they were being divinely protected for their actions, this is going to interrupt that in some ways, and i asked admiral kirby a moment ago, anticipating retaliation from the taliban, and if so, is the taliban capable of inflicting pain on the united states in a way that would actually hurt. he didn't say and basically said we willsa watch for that, but wt
do you think their reaction will to be this strike now that it has happened and again, i think probably surprising to them given how willing they were to hide him relatively in a relatively easy to find place. >> first of all, there are big divisions in the stall ban which is one thing that th taliban weren't expected, you heard admiral kirby talk about the network, a big groon of the talibanf that is -- group of taliban that is particularly close to al qaeda and not all of the other factions in the taliban support them,ns but the are still a very, very powerful faction, perhaps the most powerful in terms of security. so a very large segment of the taliban will be shamed that this happened. they hosted this important figure who they had a relationship going back many, many years, and he was killed in their territory. the taliban released a statement after a drone strike this
weekend, it seems to be the same drone strike, they didn't say who the target was at the time, and they called it a violation of their sovereignty, against international norms, and they said that it could close the c doors for future cooperation and opportunities. so in a way, the response was a rejection, but fairly measured when you look at other statements from the taliban. so they were angry, they're saying it is going to close the door for other cooperation, and it's a problem, but they weren't threatening to burn down the white house, or carry out an attack like this, but there will certainly be elements within the taliban, and within al qaeda, who will want to seek revenge.ee that said, he was not a particularly charismatic leader. he never really filled the shoes of osama bin laden. osama bin laden was the face. he was the brand name of al
qaeda. ayman al-zawahiri, the legacy player, the scholar if you will establishing the bedrock of the ideology but never commanded a lot of personal loyalty within the group. thena next leader might be ableo be more effective that way. >> richard engel, nbc news chief foreign correspondent in london, technically on vacation, but that's always fungible, given your beat, richard, thank you so much. i really, appreciate you being here,re my friend. >> my pleasure. again, president biden tonight confirming from the white house the news that the leader of al qaeda, aymam al-zawahiri age 71 who took over leadership of the group in 2011 after navy seals killed osama bin laden, he has been killed by a u.s. drone strike in kabul, il afghanistan, and that news being confirmed by the president tonight, in remarks from the white house, 20 years and 10 months after the attacks of 9/11 killed 3,000 americans on u.s. soil.
we have very much more news ahead. stay with us. h more news ahead. stay with us



you're a cio in 2022. so what's on the agenda? threat briefings, it meetings, and lots of coffee. but with fully integrated security solutions all in one place. you're ready. comcast business. powering possibilities. ™ great depression. unemployment in 1932 was 23%. the value of shares on the dow had dropped almost 90%. compared to what it what it was three years ago before the crash. the country in 1932 was in
economic freefall and as of 1932, u.s. veterans, veterans who fought in the first world war, they were as or more economically desperate as any other americans. but u.s. veterans who fought in world war one had what amounted to an iou from the u.s. government to pay them some cash. u.s. veterans who had fought in world war one had been promised during the war that they would receive a bonus payment from the government. a payment for each day they served on active duty, either at home, or abroad. and in the spring of 1932, veterans who had been promised that bonus, they came to washington, thousands of them came to washington, to demand that the government make good on those ious and pay the soldiers what they were owed. the soldiers set up camps in downtown washington, just outside the capitol, they planned to stay as long as it took. president herbert hoover, one of the worst presidents in american history, responded by calling in the united states army to attack the veterans and chase them out.
the army burned down their camps, charged them with bayonets, shot chemical weapons at them. the story of m.katz published a book earlier this year, a marine general and a leader for those veterans, a fantastic book, he n-that book, he wrote that douglas mack ar tur, bragged that by attacking the u.s. veterans in washington, d.c. was thur he had thwarted a communist revolution. tonight there are american veterans again sleeping outside dc. excuse me, sleeping outside in dc in the shadow of the u.s. capitol building. the reason the veterans are there this time because of the u.s. government's promise to pay for health care for veterans exposed to toxic burn pits during their service abroad. congress was supposed to pass legislation to make good on that promise last week and everybody thought they would, but senate
republicans changed their minds at the last moment, and suddenly discovered previously-unknown reasons to vote against that veterans bill, even though they had previously voted for it. veterans and their fathers are not giving up, they are fighting to get it passed, with pressure on many of the veterans who are camped outside the capitol today and tonight, they have been there since thursday. on saturday this weekend, president biden said he wanted to meet with them in person but because he has to isolate in covid he face-timed with the veterans and sent over boxes of pizza toshowthem his support. democrats say they will bring the veterans bill up for a vote again as soon as tomorrow. but the question of course, is, will senate republicans continue to block it, what else will the veterans and their supporters have to do to make sure this promise gets kept. joining us now is montana u.s. senator john custer, chair of the u.s. veterans committee and lead sponsor of that bill to get
veterans the care that they need exposed to toxic burn pits and the care that the government has promised them. thanks for joining us. i appreciate it. >> my pleasure. >> i want to talk about this issue and i would be remiss if i didn't actually ask you for your reaction to the huge news from the white house tonight, announced by the president, that ayman al zawahiri, the leader of al qaeda, has been killed in kabul by a u.s. done strike, obviously that makes an historic night but wanted to get your reaction particularly as chairman of the veterans affairs committee at a time when so many americans have fought in the post 9/11 wars. >> a couple of things,rachel. i appreciate the president's decisive decisions, know they're not easy but he made the right decision, and he got the job done. and i think this really falls back on the people who serve us in the military and our intelligence community being able to find and deliver a strike on a person who has had a long history of doing bad things to this nation. so i think it's a great day in
america. and i applaud the president's actions. >> i think it's a significant day, particularly for american veterans, i mean that the taliban providing safe haven for al zawahiri and bin laden and the al qaeda organization and the lead-up to 9/11 was the reason why we started america's longest wars in afghanistan and the hallmark injuries of that war in afghanistan and the following war in iraq, and that veterans have toxic exposures, including exposures to burn pits, which was not an act of the enemy, it was an act of the u.s. military, this was something that was in effect a friendly fire-inflicted injury by something that the u.s. military did. that seems to me, it always seemed to be me to impart a certain moral imperative to the requirement of the u.s. government to make sure that we make it right by the veterans who are hurt by that. do you, as it stands tonight, have confidence that this bill is going to pass? >> well, i sure hope it does,
because it is the right thing to do. i don't need to go back, as you've laid it out very well,rachel, these folks that went to a place that is far different than this country and served, followed orders, did what they needed to do to be successful and in the process, because of burn pits, with all sorts of toxins were burned, they were breathing bad air, that as a result of the cancers and lung conditions, that are going to affect them for the rest of their lives. so the promise we make to the men and women who serve, when you come back, an injury you can see or you can't see, we will fix you and make you right and that is what this bill is about, it was, and still is, the number one issue of virtually every veteran service organization out there, that people who represent the veterans had. and it is 15 years ago. and for the last year and a half, we've been working very, very diligently, and in a bipartisan way to get this bill to the floor of the senate and we did on the 16th of june and it passed with 84 votes.
now, basically, that same bill, that very same bill, that passed with 84 votes, is now being in a political turmoil, that by the way, our veterans can't afford to have it in a political turmoil. there is too much to this country. these are folks who fight for our freedoms and the folks that keep this country free, and for congress not to pass this bill, it is political malpractice, and so we need to get it passed, hopefully that happens tomorrow, but who knows, i thought it was going to pass last week, and surprise, surprise, some other folks had a different idea. but let me just say this, and this is a fact, that the bill that the folks that was voted against last week, it is the very same bill, with the exception of one line that dealt with the v.a.'s ability to provide a track, that was stripped out and with that exception it is the same bill that passed with 84 votes on june 16th. >> senator pat toomey, retiring senator pat toomey, says that he
thinks that whatever the technical change is, this not particularly important change is, that they so object to, that caused them to change all their votes, he thinks that with a 50-vote threshold you should adopt an amendment to strip that out and everything should be fine. it sounds to me like sort of trying muddy the waters among procedural hurdles that don't need to exist, is ne some sense actually pointing a pathway, pointing out a pathway toward getting this passed, by saying that he at least wants an amendment to strip that language to be a a 50-vote threshold. >> i believe, so but to be honest,rachel, every time we have had an amendment that is up for a budget point of order it is always a 60-point threshold. it is difference, i think it sets a precedent that is not healthy for congress but nonetheless i do believe there is a path to get this done tomorrow. it is going to take our two
leaders, schumer and mcconnell, negotiating to get an agreement, where we can get this bill passed and passed through. remember this, the health care that is delayed is health care that is denied, and we have already had many, many folks i don't from disorders from these toxic burn pits, and it is not only the veteran that is suffering and are suffering, but it is also their families. and when we send folks off, especially to the war that we just got out of, for the last 20 years, they're exposed to stuff that people shouldn't be exposed, to and these burn pits are just one example. and it's just the right thing to do, to get this done. and it is why, we have veterans, as you already pointed out, sleeping on the steps of the capitol tonight, saying oh, come on, guys, we put it on the line for you, you need to back up your end of the deal. >> montana u.s. senator jon tester, democrat, chairman of the veterans affairs committee.
thank you for your time tonight. keep us apprised. i know it will are a hard fight in the days ahead. thank you. >> thank you.   more news ahead. stay with us. .   more news ahead. stay with us licy you no longer w you can sell your policy - even a term policy - for an immediate cash payment. we thought we had planned carefully for our retirement. but we quickly realized we needed a way to supplement our income. if you have $100,000 or more of life insurance, you may qualify to sell your policy. don't cancel or let your policy lapse without finding out what it's worth. visit coventrydirect.com to find out if your policy qualifies. or call the number on your screen. coventry direct, redefining insurance. have you thought about your wish? i wish that shaq was my real life big brother. awe. what's up little bro? ♪♪ i'm not touching you, i'm not touching you! ♪♪ turns out, some wishes do come true. and it turns out the general is a quality insurance company that's been saving people money for nearly 60 years.
mom! for a great low rate, and nearly 60 years of quality coverage make the right call and go with the general. before dexcom g6, my diabetes was out of control. and i was tired.ars of quality coverage not having the energy to do the things that i wanted to do. before dexcom g6, i was frustrated. all of that finger-pricking and all of that pain, my a1c was still stuck. there is a better way to manage diabetes. the dexcom g6 continuous glucose monitoring system eliminates painful fingersticks, helps lower a1c, and it's covered by medicare. before dexcom g6, i couldn't enjoy a single meal. i was always trying to out-guess my glucose and it was awful. (female announcer) dexcom g6 is a small wearable that sends your glucose numbers to your phone or dexcom receiver without painful fingersticks. the arrow shows the direction your glucose is heading: up, down, or steady, so you can make better decisions about food, insulin, and activity in the moment. it can even alert you before you go too low or when you're high. oh, the fun is absolutely back.
after dexcom g6, i can, on the spot, figure out what i'm gonna eat and how it's gonna affect my glucose. when a friend calls and says, "hey, let's go to breakfast," i can get excited again. after using dexcom g6, my diabetes doesn't slow me down at all. i lead line dancing three times a week, i exercise, and i'm just living a great life now. i have eight grandchildren. now i'm able to keep up with them again. we're not afraid anymore. it's so easy to use. dexcom g6 has given me confidence and control that everything i need is right there on my phone. if you have diabetes, then getting on the dexcom g6 is the single most important thing you can do. once a patient gets on dexcom g6, it's like the lights come on. (david) within months, my a1c went down to 6.9. (earl) my a1c has never been lower. (donna) at my last checkup, my a1c was 5.9. (female announcer) dexcom g6 is the #1 recommended cgm system, and it's backed by 24/7 tech support. call now to get started. you'll talk to a real person. don't wait, this one short call could change your life.
(bright music) wanna help kids get their homework done? well, an internet connection's a good start. but kids also need computers. and sometimes the hardest thing about homework is finding a place to do it. so why not hook community centers up with wifi? for kids like us, and all the amazing things we're gonna learn. through projectup, comcast is committing $1 billion so millions more students can continue to get the tools they need to build a future of unlimited possibilities.
fair warning. tomorrow is going to be bananas as a primary day. here is just some of the leading candidates in the republican primaries, in arizona a trump endorsed candidate for governor who has made the 2020 election the number one issue of the campaign and said the election is stolen and president biden secretly isn't president, and if
she becomes governor, she says she will eliminate mail-in voting in arizona, as well as eliminating all voting machines. oh. plus she says without any evidence of course that her primary election is already being stolen from her right now ahead of time. then there is the republican primary for u.s. senate in arizona, and in that race, trump's preferred candidate is a guy who almost entirely funded by billionaire tech guru peter, a man who says he does not believe democracy and american is going downhill when women were given the right to vote. and says the january 6th attacks on the u.s. capitol was a false flag operation carried out by the fbi and when it comes to gun violence, blake masters blames black people frankly end quote. and the republican primary for the secretary of state in arizona, the official who runs the state's elections. the trump-backed candidate there
is an election denier who says he will only accept the results of tomorrow's primary if he wins tomorrow's primary. and he was a january 6th himself, and said he is a member of the right wing pro-trump para-military group the oathkeepers. members of which are on trial right now for seditious conspiracy because of their role in the january 6th attack. all three of those trump-backed candidates have a very good chance of winning their republican primaries tomorrow in arizona.   meanwhile, missouri. the republican primary for u.s. senate there features the state's former republican governor who was forced to resign from that job after about five minutes. in a scandal over blackmailing his former mistress after he allegedly forced her into a nonconsensual sexual encounter and photographed it. more recently eric greitens ex-wife has accused him in court of physically abusing her and their kids and he has released an ad that features him and other guys with guns and tactical gear, pretending to
hunt fellow republicans they deem insufficiently trump-y, by storming into their house with guns. eric greitens's main rival for the u.s. senate nomination in missouri, eric schmitt and he joined a lawsuit to get the get the u.s. supreme court to deny biden's election. and on the eve of the primary in missouri, donald trump released an endorsement in this contest between eric greitens and eric schmitt. trump says he is endorsing eric. >> i'm not kidding. this is what trump's press release says, eric has my complete and total endorsement. both eric have enthusiastically accepted that endorsement tonight. absolutely unreal. i should also mention in the great state of washington, republican congresswoman jamie
herrera butler is facing a primary challenge, one of a handful of republican members of congress who voted on the impeachment for inciting january 6th, and that explains why trump is backing a primary challenger against her and this guy has a whole rolodex of extremist white nationalism and militia members connected to his campaign. the a. p. reports he paid thousands of dollars to the campaign consulting at the proud boys and poses for photos with guys who have anti-semitism online and hitler was complicate and misunderstood. and the candidate said in an interview, i don't think there is anything wrong with there being a white people's special interest group. that's who trump is backing in a primary challenge to a sitting republican congresswoman in washington state tomorrow. the problem is the most watched vote, it is not a candidate at all, the vote in the state of kansas on abortion.
voting on a proposed amendment to the state constitution. if it passes, it would effectively let republicans in the kansas state legislature ban abortion. this will be the first time that voters have cast ballots directly on abortion rights. since the supreme court overturned roe. to make sure it passes, kansas republicans have put the measure on the ballot during what they expect to be a low turnout primary election, one in which mostly republican candidates are running in primary races. so mostly republican voters are expected to turn out. they have also made the language of the ballot measures complicated and confusing as possible. so that no normal person can be expected to decipher what a yes vote or a no vote really means in this context. we've also got reports of misleading text messages being sent to kansas voters describing a no vote as a yes vote, and a yes note as a no vote in a way that's designed to bamboozele people into voting in ways they don't actually intend. so that vote is in kansas tomorrow. so are all of these primary elections.
where 99 days out from the midterms, in which all of the candidates who win the primaries tomorrow will be in the ballot in the general election. i will tell you one silver lining here. the great steve karnacki will host a special focussed often what will happen in those midterms, and that is tonight after thisshow, 10:00 p.m. eastern. don't want to miss it. stern. don't want to miss it. your projects done right

. with angi, you can connect with and see ratings and reviews. and when you book and pay throug you're covered by our happiness check out angi.com today. angi... and done. 9 out of 10 couples prefer a different mattress firmness. the sleep number 360 smart bed senses your movements and automatically adjusts and when you book and pay throug you're covered by our happiness to keep you both comfortable. our smart sleepers get 28 minutes more restful sleep per night. save $500 on the sleep number 360 c4 smart bed, queen now only $1299. lowest price ever!

this weekend, president biden joins us a small but growing group of americans who had gotten covid and then taken the antiviral drug paxlovid,
with the help of paxlovid a powerful anti-viral, they have recovered from covid, tested negative, only to have what they're calling a rebound, after finishing the five-day course of the paxlovid pills, and testing negative, at the end of it, the president, like many americans, then tested positive again a couple of days later. now, statistically, they say this is a rare thing. the data says only about 2 to 6% of people who take paxlovid face a rebound from covid like this. but the president being one of those people puts a real spotlight on particular and raises some interesting questions for future research. the president's doctor said today, importantly, that the president continues to feel well even though he is still testing positive as of this morning, and that's the important bottom line here. he's okay. paxlovid is working. it has been working for thousands of americans. keeping people alive and out of the hospital and ideally dealing with relatively mild symptoms just like the president has experienced. but like the president, people who get these rebound cases,
after completing a course of paxlovid, they face a couple of tricky questions. particularly around infectiousness. are you contagious once you start testing positive again? the consensus there is probably yes. the cdc now says if you get a paxlovid rebound, you got to go back into isolation for another five days. and then wear your mask for another 10 days just as if it is a new infection. that's the protocol the president is under right now. researchers are still investigating paxlovid rebound, but for people who are taking that anti-viral drug, and excited to test negative at the end of that five-day course, the increasing visibility of paxlovid rebound shows that a negative test at the end of that course of drugs might just be a temporary reprieve and your infectiousness might still be be a live issue and implications for those taking the treatment and gaps in the knowledge but the president's announcement of this should pur new research if
not new recommendations sooner rather than later. watch this space. dations sooner rather than later. watch this space do you have a life insurance policy you no longer need? now you can sell your policy - even a term policy - for an immediate cash payment. we thought we had planned carefully for our retirement. but we quickly realized we needed a way to supplement our income. if you have $100,000 or more of life insurance, you may qualify to sell your policy. don't cancel or let your policy lapse without finding out what it's worth. visit coventrydirect.com to find out if your policy qualifies. or call the number on your screen. coventry direct, redefining insurance.



that's going to do it for us, for now. "way too early" with jonathan lemire is up next.   after carefully considering, with clear and convincing evidence of his location, i authorized a precision strike that would remove him from the battlefield once and for all. for those around the world who continue to seek harm on the united states, hear me now. we will all remain vigilant and we will act and we will always do what is necessary to ensure the safety and security of americans at home and around the globe. >> a terrorist that's been targeting americans for decades is now dead. we'll have much more on the strike that took out one of the masterminds behind the september 11