and of course, we did no phone calls going in from family members and from high-ranking political officials on both sides of the aisle, begging trump to intervene and him rebuffing all of these overtures. >> all right, congressman jeremy raskin, thank you very time tonight. that is all in on this tuesday night. therachelmaddowshowwith ali -- good evening ali. >> thank you and we will see you tonight, thank you at-home for joining us this hour. joining you again tonight from the city of lviv in ukraine. and here in lviv, since one of the oldest cemeteries in europe. it's called the -- cemetery. it dates the 1787. in addition to holding the graves of some of ukraine's most celebrated writers and artists and politicians. it also holds the graves of ukrainian soldiers from the many many conflicts over the centuries. since the city's founding. there are sections for veterans of various 19th century
uprisings against the russian empire and four veterans of world war i. and world war ii. when ukrainians and russians fought together to liberate ukraine from nazi occupation. and now the cemetery is the resting place for an ever growing number of soldiers who have died in the current russian invasion of ukraine. today, rain fell on -- cemetery as fuels were held there for more ukrainian soldiers. who's joined dozens of others were buried there in recent weeks. and even as the military dead are put to rest, in a central square here in lviv, earlier tonight, hundreds of candles were lit to honor civilians killed in the russian invasion. of this country. civilians whose bodies are even now be recovered in towns where russian forces have withdrawn. civilians who have not had the dignity of a funeral, in many cases, not even the dignity of a burial. many of the civilians have not even been identified in some may never be. residents of the city, lviv,
along with ukrainians who have fled here to escape the invasion, arrange yellow and blue candles tonight in the shape of their country. like all ukrainians, they're trying to come to grips with the emerging horror of the atrocities that have been uncovered. for the past couple of days, we've been getting grisly reports and images out of the kyiv suburb of bucha following the departure of russian forces that occupy the town for weeks. well today, nbc news foreign correspondent richard engel went to bucha. and i will warn you, as i said we must do every night now, that some of the images in the descriptions in richards reports are deeply disturbing. >> to enter bucha now, you have to drive past a graveyard of russian tanks. ukrainian troops kick the russians out of this kyiv suburb and once again are in charge. but for five weeks, russian soldiers occupied bucha. destroyed much of it.
and imposed a reign of terror. today, residents were coming out of hiding. in front of their building, valentina and her friend said russian soldiers went apartment to apartment, mostly searching for men. they were breaking open doors with axes and sledgehammers, she says. if you talk back, they shot you. she wanted toshowme something behind the building. we she saying, one of her neighbors was so frightened because the russian soldiers were banging on his door. that he jumped out of that window on the third floor and came landing on the ground. didn't die, hurt himself but managed to escape. he felt the russians were just going to shoot him dead. desperation. a few feet away it was a grave, valentina dug with her friend. you put up across? you buried for people here?
to where our neighbors, she says. we don't know who the other two are but buried them anyway. she says, all four of them were machine gunned by russian troops. she doesn't know why. please don't let this happen again, she says. we are regular, hardworking people. down the street, the abram a family was in their home with a russian fan soldiers threw a grenade through the window and set fire to the house. vladimir and his daughter arena came running out in the cold in slippers. they started to ask, where are the nazis, give us their addresses, he says. they said we are russians, we came to liberate you. the soldiers grabbed arena's husband, oleg, and took him out in front of the house. they make him take his sweater off and they put him on his knees and shot him in the head. i went on the street and blood was still pumping from his head. i started to shout, kill me
too. because i have only one husband. she thinks they killed him to scare others in bucha into submission. he was facing in this direction? and that's part of his head, i still see the blood there. oleg was a welder. arena says he never served in the military because of his bad back. when oleg's killers left, it was very cold. they took his sweater with him. >> i always saw that they were are others. and half russian myself. >> ukrainian troops estimate hundreds of civilians were murdered in bucha. they are still finding bodies after a wanton disregard for human life here, not even in war is a crime. with >> nbc's richard engel and fuchsia today. and as ukraine forces reclaim these towns around kyiv in ukraine's north. officials there are treating the civilian death as crimes. even in the midst of a war, they're trying to build an evidentiary record in the hopes of holding russian forces and
vladimir putin accountable. sky news deborah haines was in the scene of a new discovery of bodies and pushing today. >> this is no ordinary crime scene. behind the cordon, yellow plaques numbered from 1 to 6 are all that distinguish the remains of one life from another. each body burned beyond recognition. we like so many victims in the town of bucha, their identities are not yet known. but what is clear is ukraine's resolve for justice and its rage at russia. how can you talk to vladimir putin when his forces do this?
we've not been here very long but in this small corner of bucha, we've already counted eight bodies. there are many more houses and gardens he had to be searched. down the road, three more stolen lives. discarded in death. but further evidence for ukraine's liberators. >> sky news is debra haines in bucha, ukraine. yesterday, volodymyr zelenskyy went to bucha to see the carnage for himself. and today in addressing the nation, security council, he described civilians being tortured people shot in the back of the head with our hands bound. women raped in front of their families. his anger was palpable. >> [interpreter] if this continues, the countries will be rely only on the power of their own arms to ensure their security. and not on international law.
not rely on international institutions. the united nations can be simply closed, ladies and gentlemen, are you ready to close the un? do you think that the time of international law is gone? if your answer is no, then you need to act immediately. >> so once he has said that bucha, for all its horrors, may not be the worst of it. that other places like the devastated town of borodyanka, 15 miles away, may have suffered even more civilian casualties. new atrocities will be revealed as ukrainian forces and officials are able to start recovery efforts. not just in cities and towns but even on the roads in between them. just outside of kyiv, there's an important highway connecting the capital to the region of -- . in general, this is an important highway but in times of war it's even more so. people are using it to evacuate. it's become a humanitarian
corridor. for almost 40 days, russian troops tried to enter kyiv. they couldn't do it on the way to the capital, on the highway between kyiv and the tumor, they destroyed everything they could. buildings were bombed, people were killed, their bodies strewn about on the roadside. and we know this because the highway has since been liberated by ukrainian forces but much of what is left behind as you can see, is hard to watch. alex goncharenko, a ukraine member of parliament, visited the area. >> i am in kyiv. on the highway kyiv. -- just kilometers from kyiv. and you see, this hell. it is a hell. it's something absolutely awful. that is -- russian world. that is what is done by putin
and russian federation. just watch at this. cars like this with bodies, are just all around. i >> that highway just one of the many areas that mr. goncharenko recently visited in order to document the atrocities left in the wake of the russian retreat. he also visited bucha and while the situation on the ground there is harrowing, he worries that the reality could be far worse. in cities that are still under siege. he tweeted today quote, ukrainians to manage evacuate mariupol say, the bucha massacre is only part of the kremlin's atrocities. when the world sees variable, you won't have enough tears. and i'm scared to hear it. i am scared to hear it. joining us now from the southern city of chernihiv ski, is acting alex goncharenko. he's a member of ukrainian parliament, alex, thank you for being with us. we were together on saturday. when you had first reach that area in bucha and you had your
phone and you were showing me a shopping mall behind you that had been destroyed. but at that point, in the middle of the day on saturday, neither you nor i had first seen what you end up having to experience. the bodies and the sheer destruction throughout the region. >> that's true, it was that we explored just during the last days and what we saw this awful, absolutely horrific picture of devastation and murders. committed by russian army. and i can't tell you, me personally, i saw up to 50 killed people, 50 just imagine. i saw a mass grave with up to 20 bodies in plastic bags. burned down cars that you are now showing. i saw one of what is absolutely awful, on this kyiv --
i saw naked bodies of women and their clothing or near the road. which we can only just understand what had happened probably before that. but after russian troops killed them, they put them on tires and try to burn them down. and partially, they succeeded and partially not. it's awful, i can't just explain you and i saw it by my own eyes. i met a couple of aged people who stood by their own eyes while russians killed people in the car just outside of their house. and then they took their bodies and bring them in private garden. so now they have a vegetable snake sunflowers and two graves of people who they don't even know. >> alex, you've actually been traveling from town to town. this is one of the things that you do in addition to the other things you do as a member of
parliament and charity, you run, but there are so many towns and you've alluded to this on your twitter feed. that we've not seen anything about. because they're either still in a russian attack or under occupation. so we are talking about kherson or mariupol, what are you hearing? >> about mariupol, we have testimonies of people who left variable. who managed to succeed to leave this city. and what they are saying is so horrific, the city of half million population is almost completely destroyed. just flattened. and they are saying, speaking about bucha, external area, the number of victims were counting them in hundreds. so in mariupol, we're counting them in thousands. in thousands. just in one city. but quite a big city. and really we are scared to
turn to chest open what had happened in mariupol. we have russians are still there, they are still attacking the city, it's under siege. ukrainian troops are partially controlling the city and still fighting. but we do know that one of lithuanian director who try to make documentary there was killed by russian troops two days ago. and that's why we don't have enough information. but even that we know shows us the situation there is absolutely awful. that is a war crimes, and that is a genocide. because all these peoples are civilians and they are killed for just being ukrainians. >> well let's discuss that a little bit more, because you've been out there documenting it. presents once he did save of the atrocities that he was there as well in bucha and saw were evidence of genocide against ukraine. the u.s. has said that while
it's possible that genocide has been committed, it's not ready yet to make that assessment. so what do you say to those in the world who are saying, we now believe these are war crimes, we're not sure is genocide. the deliberate annihilation and elimination of killing of people because of who they are. >> unfortunately, i think that in some time they will say yes, that's true, you are right. like at the beginning, we said that russians will make this terror campaign and they are making and also they are like okay, maybe they are exaggerating. but now watching these pictures of devastation and kills, absolutely on a human barbaric behavior of russian troops. now nobody has any concerns about this. and everybody understands what is going on. so i think that in some time, the genocide will be proved as
a genocide. also, ukraine is inviting international criminal court, specialist, prosecutors to ukraine to work on this and i think that after the war will be done, it will be absolutely clear that russia's committed genocide. >> alex, as you know, because everyone in ukraine has these apps about airstrikes and things. and there is information from a government official not far from where you are close to the moldovan border there have been strikes again tonight. was this issue a shun in southern ukraine where you are now? >> you see that, without light, because it is just forbidden. because it can be bombed and it's bad to not toshowlight in the night. because russians are continuing to bomb and two missile attack ukrainian cities. and for example, just yesterday
mykolaiv in one of the southern cities of ukraine was again attacked. and what's targets there. uncollectible hospital and pediatric hospital. just imagine. so again, it's not a military target that russians are continuing this terror campaign. throughout the whole country. that's why we are so desperately need air defense and aircrafts. we succeeded the battle of kyiv, which is extremely important strategically important. and we want to go further. but what is our problem, air. where russians still have advantage. and we hope that with the help of this free world, we should shock with all these people pictures and this horror. we will succeed to the situation in air to. >> alex, thank you for spending time with us again this
evening. alex cutlery goes a member ukrainian parliament. who has been documenting the atrocities. we'll talk to you again, alex. >> as alex contrary coaches told us, the attacks on mykolaiv have included attacks on hospitals. we're gonna be joined live by washington post reporter who's there next. i'm a mother of four-- always busy. i was starting to feel a little foggy. just didn't feel like things were as sharp as i knew they once were. i heard about prevagen and then i started taking it about two years now. started noticing things a little sharper, a little clearer. i feel like it's kept me on my game. i'm able to remember things. i'd say give it a try. prevagen. healthier brain. better life. inner voice (furniture maker): i'm rubbing the arms of my chair... ...admiring the craft and detail i've put into it. that way i try to convince myself that i'm in control of the business side of my business. intuit quickbooks makes it easy for you to get a complete view of your business.
so you can sit back and... ...relax. ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪
♪♪ asya agulnik md: st. jude was founded with an understanding that no child should die in the dawn of life. to work with many partners all over the world, nothing stops in the way of us achieving that mission, not
even war. marta salek md: when there is a need, people stand up and do what is right and ensure that they restart medical therapy as quickly as possible. carlos rodriguez-galindo md: any child suffering today of cancer a baby boy named proton was is our responsibility.

born in a mykolaiv hospital this weekend. he was born in a makeshift bomb shelter there. this is how the washington post describes his first night alive, quote, mothers with newborn babies, a woman with a heart condition in elderly people who couldn't walk on their own hurriedly evacuated to the basement of a mykolaiv hospital on sunday night. as the booming thuds of artillery grew closer. they made it down to the shelter just in time. five minutes at her patients and staff had crowded into the cramped underground hallway, a suspected cluster munition landed right next to the building. the blast shattered nearly all of the windows. it made for an eventful night, first night for biden who was born in the makeshift bomb shelter after his mother, fetal enough, and others in the maternity ward made the more harrowing journey to safety from the hospitals top floor. the russians are animals, there is no other explanations, said biden's grandmother lana. no one was injured in the attack. as nurses and volunteers move
from one word to the next sweeping up broken glass, their feelings range from distress to anger. one staff member cried as she did open the door to a used to be her laboratory. the window glass was gone, the glass in the cabinets was scattered to. gosh, candace and already. said -- a nurse. what did we even do? we never attacked anyone. that was on sunday, on monday, russians bombed yet another hospital in mykolaiv. doctors without borders went to visit the cities oncology hospital. by the afternoon, they were ducking for cover as russian forces fired at the area around the hospital. as of march 30th, the world health organization is verified, at least 82 russian attacks on health care services resulting in a 72 deaths and 44 injuries. those are were crimes. russian troops have been targeting mykolaiv as they try to secure control of ukraine's black sea shoreline. and make their way to the country largest port. but hospitals across this
country have been attacked with increasing frequency. frightening residents and damaging access to health care. one washington post reporter has been documenting the lives and the deaths of ukraine's living under russian control and russian violence. reporting on the inhumanity, the brutality and the horror that has playing out across the country joining us now is isabelle khurshudyan, a washington post foreign correspondent who's been reporting from ukraine for the past two and a half months. isabelle, it's good to see you again, thank you for joining us. we just quoted from your reporting on the bombing of the hospital in mykolaiv. i needed to tell us more about this, tell us about the patients and the medical staff and how they're able to cope in this type of environment which is unfortunately as you were reporting becoming common across the country. >> yeah, you it's really strikes me now when you go to the site of some of these bombings and attacks is. just right away, people have this kind of you know numbness
as they just start to clean up the scene. when we got there, people volunteers and hospital staff are just weeping of glass. i mean, sweeping up areas that had been their offices, their wards, things of that sort. so i think, you know, they were, there's kind of these attacks happen, they expect him at this point. and right away, they start to cleanup. that hospital got lucky that everyone was evacuated in time. and no one was seriously injured. but one woman, she'd come to the hospital with heart condition. even said to her, i can't imagine this was good for your heart. the stress of this. and she said, i'm too scared to stay here at the hospital, i'd rather go home. and that's where that becomes really heartbreaking is that even a hospital becomes unsafe. it's a place that ukrainians now expect to be targeted. and they're afraid to be there, even if it's, they need to be
there for their health. >> there's something in your reporting was very similar to what richard engel had from bucha. you report on the experiences of ukrainian residents living in the villages around mykolaiv. where russians, were, and even asking them where the nazis live. and i don't know whether this is something they're really trying to get out or whether this is part of the propaganda that the soldiers were given when they invaded ukraine. but they're going around and looking for nazis, they say. >> yeah, everyone we talked to said, the russians were asking, where are the nazis, where are the -- which was a group that was ukrainian actual group that was formed in world war ii. they were looking for people dressed in black. in a lot of residents that we talked to in these areas, these are small towns and villages, an hour north of nikolai of. there were occupied for about
ten days. those people kind of looked at them, and the russian soldiers and said, we have no people like that here. we don't know what you're talking about. and their impression was that, those soldiers have been kind of almost brainwashed by this kremlin false propaganda that's been used to justify this unprovoked war. >> the russian troops are trying to make their way west, along southern ukraine. mykolaiv has been a point at which they've been stopped. they were planning to otherwise be in odessa, the beautiful port city of odessa. the biggest pour in the country on the black sea. you have spent a lot of time reporting on odessa. it's where your parents were born. tell us what it's like, would it was like to be there and how that port city is doing right now. everybody there is expecting that the worst is still yet to come. >> yeah, odessa is, for the
most part like there has returned to normal for normal-ish i guess as normal things can get in a war. there are, you know, still military checkpoints and a heavy military presence. but even the zoo is open nowadays. salons are open, restaurants are open. but at the same time, people know that that surprised for russia. there were airstrikes recently in the fuel depots there. i think, people are nervous, i think they are kind of scared as this war appears to be shifting east and south. and now we're seeing mykolaiv come under much heavier attacks. i think there is kind of a push that people mykolaiv are starting to feel where we're seeing more cluster munitions, more attacks in broad daylight that seem to be kind of purposely targeting civilians. and so, those people evacuating to odessa. and you know, as you mentioned,
i have family there, my family is from there, migrants and has their. and i'm of the morning of those airstrikes. on the fuel depots, migrate aunt was like, maybe you should leave. that's not really how my job, works my job is to stay and document what happens. but, it's a weird feeling there, because on the surface looks very normal but people are getting nervous as kind of it seems that area is going to come into play soon. >> it is, it's not just very hard, it's impossible to put your feelings aside as a journalist we are covering the story like this. when you have your heart and it because you're hurt your families actually there, that is a challenge and we thank you for living up to it and doing it. isabelle khurshudyan's washington post foreign correspondent. and we thank you for your time tonight. well the key thing is that ukraine's leader say they need to fight russia's more weapons from the west, today ukraine
got some good news on that from the u.s. but some key members of congress say, it's still not enough. congressman jason crow joins us next and later, ivanka trump testify to the january six investigation for roughly eight hours today. we'll give you some details ahead. l give you some detail ahead. ahead. that oddly satisfying feeling when you don't do it yourself.
[yawn] bro trip! if you book with priceline, you'll save more, so you can “broooo” more. [impressed] broooooo. broooo!!!! broooo!!!! broooo!!!! [in unison] brooooooooo!!!! [splash] [disappointed] broooo... good thing you saved on the trip! priceline. every trip is a big deal. the sleep number 360 smart bed is on sale now. it senses your movements and automatically adjusts good thing you saved on the trip! so you both stay comfortable all night. it's also temperature balancing so you stay cool. and now, save $1000 on the most popular smart bed. only for a limited time. to learn more, go to sleepnumber.com.

where do you find the perfect developer? well, we found her in prague between the ideal cup of coffee and a truly impressive synthesizer collection. ...but you can find her right now on upwork. better. when the world is your workforce finding the perfect developer, designer, marketer, or whomever you may need, tends to fall right into place. find top-rated talent who can start today on upwork. when you need help it's great to be in sync with customer service. a team of reps who can anticipate the next step
genesys technology is changing the way customer service teams anticipate what customers need. because happy customers are music to our ears. genesys, we're behind every customer smile. today we learned that the united states will soon be introducing a new weapon to the battlefield and ukraine, tank
killing drones. the administration plans to send ukraine ten so-called, switchblade 600 drones. check these out, but about the under million dollar lethal military aid package. these weapons are essentially portable robotic smart bombs that can destroy heavy armor like tanks and artillery from a distance. the 600 series of these drones carry a stronger payload than these ones they're looking at, the low cost switchblade 300 drones that are used for pinpoint strikes on enemy personnel. both types of drones are equipped with cameras. they can be program to strike targets miles away. the biden administration announced last month that it would provide ukraine with 100 of these less deadly 300 series drones. also breaking tonight, nbc news can report that the u.s. will be sending $100 million worth of javelin anti-tank missiles to ukraine. so up and that the ukrainians used whether fish and see
against and running russian tanks. it also matters that the czech republic has been quietly sending ukraine old soviet design tanks, which ukrainian forces are already chain to use. that marks the first time that a foreign country has provided ukraine with tanks since the beginning of the war. but despite these new weapons, some u.s. lawmakers are still calling on the biden administration to do a lot more. 44 house members from the armed services committee, intelligence and foreign affairs committee, as well as the bipartisan new ukraine caucus have signed this letter, making highly special people what's been so requests that are needed for ukraine to defend this air of space, entourage enable attacks, and increase their ground capabilities. one of the people whose behind this letter is jason crow. today during the budget hearing, his press secretary was talking about how the u.s. is planning to keep up support as it evolves. >> can you just very briefly
talk about how should our support evolve as this goes from a short term fight that's providing things that are needed and commute is now on the battlefield to transition to a longer term fight like the national security adviser indicated yesterday. how does that change the nature of our support? >> we continue to look at what we think we know the ukrainians will need because we're talking to them on the basis. it will be a lot of the same things that we provided already. but we look for things that also can provide them an advantage in this fight. >> joining us now is the democratic colorado congressman jason crow, member both the armed services and intelligence committees. he has served as an army ranger in both iraq and afghanistan. congressman, thanks for your time tonight. thanks for joining us. we learned the biden nation will stand another $100 million worth of these very effective javelin anti-tank missiles to
ukraine. but our first guest tonight, the member of parliament alex told me that russian long-range attacks on the civilian populations are the reasons why ukraine so desperately needs anti-tank and anti aircraft offense more than anti-tank defense. you've also made that argument. is the u.s. going to do it? >> yeah, i think the united states is going to do it. i want to make something clear, the biden administration has done a remarkable job providing a faster array of the offensive weapons and equipment to the ukrainians in a very short period of time. there's a couple reasons why the cranes are having as much success on the battlefield that they are. one is that they are fierce fighters, they're fighting for their independence and freedom. the second is, we're giving them tremendous weapons, 24 century weapons at a breakneck pace. and the third is, we've been training them since 2014. given the communications
equipment and training actually bring them to the battlefield with the fight than they are now. so the ministration is on a great job, but worst change, wars of all. and this warrants change involved. the russians have adopted, they're shifting their tactic. they're shifting the location. so our support has that doubts. that's with this letter is about. it's not a critical letter, not saying they haven't done enough. we're saying that the next phase of this war will require not pollution, a change in both the quantity and speed and nature of this weather report right. >> congressman, you are an army ranger. you start not afghanistan and iraq, so you know the consequences of this. how do you balance the ukrainian request for more assistance, some of which, russia will take to be an act of war from nato. how do you separate those things? because people were in that if you do that, you end up in a world war three, and upon a
direct war with the russia, a hot war that could involve you nuclear weapons. somehow you think about this. >> how i think about it is, we're not going to implement a no-fly zone, because that would require u.s. fighter jets a shooting down russian fighter jets and the ukrainians guys. we're not gonna send nato or u.s. troops to fight on the ground than russia. so short of those things, there are many other things we can do. we can provide all the assistance we can ask for at a period of time. we can do it now, because they have to be able to sustain it and how the supply lines and be trained on those systems. to make sure that these are systems that will announce of the russians or be captured either. so balancing all those considerations. but you can give them, over a period of time, but we have a list of 17 items prioritized an order of 1 to 17. the top items i things that they need to implement right now and put into effect on the battlefield today.
as you good on that list, there are a longer term things. fighter jets, tanks, other material that requires sustainment. some supply lines, some training that they may not have. but the administration recognize that what's happening here is the ukrainians after both fight now, and have to transition to a longer term fight as the russians begin and look at a war of attrition over long period of time. so have to do both. the ukrainians understand that, and we have to build a balance will for the shut down the long term. >> it's hard to think about a long term when you see the images that we've all watched this weekend of these atrocities. we appreciate that people like you are the real experience on about field and then government understand how to discuss them. democratic lot of congressman jason crow, we appreciate you joining us. >> my pleasure. >> up next, ivanka trump, who was in the room with her father
and generous, except justified for roughly eight hours today. what investigators may have learned, next. investigators may hav learned, next. learned, next.

♪♪ ♪♪
♪♪ ♪♪
and it's easier than ever to get your projects done right. with angi, you can connect with and see ratings and reviews. and when you book and pay throug you're covered by our happiness check out angi.com today. angi... and done. today, ivanka trump testified before the january six investigation for roughly eight hours behind closed doors. that's about two more hours than her husband, jared kushner, gave the committee last week. but unlike her husband, who was returning from an overseas trip to saudi arabia and january six,
ivanka trump was actually in the room that it happened. with president trump that day. as the attack on the capital was unfolding. kellogg, who served as vice president mike pence's national security adviser, told investigators that ivanka trump was president in the oval office that day. that overheard a late morning phone call in which her father tried to pressure mike pence into stopping the electoral college certification a few hours later. according to utter accounts from that day, multiple officials reached out to ivanka trump to try to get her to get her father to call off the riot. documents released by the investigators also detail how ivanka trump made multiple unsuccessful attempts to get her father to stop the attack as hours passed without any action from him. and there's some indication that investigators might actually got some answers from ivanka trump today. this was the january six investigation chair, benny thompson, talking with nbc news outside of the hearing. >> she's answering questions.
i mean, you know, not in broad, chatty terms, but she's answering the questions. >> has she invoked the fifth? >> not that i'm aware of. >> or any other privilege for that matter, executive privilege? >> now that i'm aware of. >> okay, so that would seem to imply that ivanka trump is one of the more cooperative witnesses from donald trump's inner circle. several other trump allies who have stonewalled the investigation by either invoking executive privilege or pleading the fifth, how does far not been forthcoming with the committee. committee sherman also a new today suggesting that his committee will likely not subpoena the vice president. former vice president mike pence for testimony saying, they've got enough information from his aides who have already testified. thompson also appeared to rule out calling the former president himself as a witness. but they did apparently want roughly eight hours of testimony from the president's daughter. so just what are the
investigators learning from ivanka trump and what does it mean that she is in fact answering questions? joining us now is nbc news justice reporter ryan reilly who first broke the news that ivanka trump would be testifying before the u.s. six investigation -- ryan, good to see you. tell me what you make of the idea that ivanka trump according to benny thompson who has no reason to lie to us about this, is neither invoking executive privilege nor the fifth amendment. do you make anything of that? >> you know, i think it's present to this broader theme that we sum throughout the trump administration where ivanka trump and jared kushner tried to make themselves out to be the reasonable people in the room. and they kept saying that they were trying to push trump in the right direction. it became a true throughout the trump administration we saw this and every decision that from administration made that was unpopular with the broader masses or may have been unpopular in their circles. there was always the story that said well you know ivanka was trying to push him in the right direction behind the scenes. so the sort of seems like an ongoing theme here. because january 6th is now this
monumental event that is shaping the entire trump presidency. i think it's clear here and then she recognizes that. she has to be clear that you know she was a reasonable force in the room. she has to get the narrative out there or else is going to bring her entire brand down along with her father's. >> so tell me how she does that without throwing him under the bus. because the argument that i am the adult in the room means that someone else wasn't being an adult in the room. and the biden every observation of that would be that maybe ivanka trump was trying to get him to call it off and on trump wasn't calling it off. >> yeah, i mean it's difficult to imagine that ivanka trump actually believes the things about the stolen election that her father believes. just generationally, she's younger, she's more internet savvy, she's college educated. she's probably a lot less conservative than her father. so to imagine that we're in a situation where we actually believe these lies. that the president was spreading. which is what makes her testimony so important.
because a critical thing here is whether or not donald trump actually believes the lies that he was telling about the stolen election. that's really a critical cone of this. especially for the justice department investigation where that's going to be a critical component to broader, to the brother investigation and criminal culpability ultimately. if he actually believed the lies of the selection. that's a lot different than just saying these things to try to make a splashing change direction of the election -- basically essentially steal the election. if he knew the realize, that was one thing. if you actually believe the lies, there's another. that could determine the trickery of the criminal side of this investigation. >> then there are a whole lot of people who would like the answer to exactly where you just, you just framed. chairman thompson is indicated at the committee is not calling either donald trump or mike pence as witnesses. is that something the whole committee is on board with, because there are whole bunch of americans who may not be and where we value? >> you know, i think based on the investigation that the
committee is running here, interviewed over 100 people, they have a really wide view of this entire situation. you can go to a lot areas of the fbi and doj really can't because there is no criminal issue at matter. they can sort of have this wide ranging investigation where doj is more limited. and i think that they have that, essentially what happened with pence without actually getting his testimony because they have that testimony from close aides. so really, they do have a really comprehensive view of this. and it sort of speaks to the fact that, we could get the full picture, the full story from this committee rather than from doj or the fbi who are only going to get these piecemeal things. or are going to get information only one implicates a violation of federal law. >> ryan, i'm grateful they are here. it always blows in mind how so much you know about this because it's a lot of work at a lot of papers and a lot of documents that committees going through and you seem to know that every bit of it. nbc justice department reporter ryan riley always appreciate
your time. coming up next, plays a very familiar the white house today. stay with us, we'll tell you that's about. claritin provides non-drowsy symptom relief from over 200 indoor and outdoor allergens, day after day. feel the clarity - and make today the most wonderful time of the year. live claritin clear. ♪ we could walk forever ♪ ( ♪♪ ) ♪ walking on ♪ ♪ walking on the moon ♪
♪ some ♪ ♪ may say ♪ ♪ i'm wishing my days away ♪ ♪ no way ♪ ♪ walking on the moon ♪

at xfinity, we live and work in the same neighborhood as you. ♪ no way ♪ we're always working to keep you connected to what you love. and now, we're working to bring you the next generation of wifi. it's ultra-fast. faster than a gig. supersonic wifi. only from xfinity. it can power hundreds of devices with three times the bandwidth. so your growing wifi needs will be met. supersonic wifi only from us... xfinity. are some changes of been made
by the current president since last year. friendly secret service agents have to wear area track classes no. >> president barack obama paid his first visit to the white
house in five years today. and it wasn't just a tell jokes. today president biden signed an aggressive executive order that fixed a glitch in the affordable care act, lowering health care premiums for nearly 1 million people and allowing another 20,000 uninsured americans to get coverage. today was sort of a victory lap for both presidents. passing the affordable care act and 12 years ago was of course the signature accomplishment of the obama biden administration. or as biden famously will support obama when obama signed the aca 12 years ago, now relating the concussive you heard by the microphone, the aca was a big bleeping deal. >> on today, the aca hasn't survived, it's pretty darn popular. and the reason is because it's done what it's supposed to do. it's made a difference. first 20 million, now 30 million people have got uncovered thanks to the aca.
if you can get millions of people health care coverage embarkation, it is the quote a famous american, a pretty big deal. [laughs] [applause][laughs] [applause] and indeed, a major step toward what could ultimately become the universality of health care, only the united states continues to struggle with is a very big deal indeed. that those are for us tonight, we will see again tomorrow, it's time now for the last word with lawrence o'donnell, good evening lawrence. >> good evening ali, and tonight we're gonna have our first in the studio gust in two years and two months. my friend sean payton is going to join us, he's just back from ukraine. he has interviewed president zelenskyy there. he has much to tell us