when the republican party is on the wrong side, writ large, of american public opinion in the wake of that dobbs decision. natalie allison, who's been covering all this cross-country, thank you very much. thank you very much. that is all in on this monday night, therachelmaddowshowhe has to break into the national archives and steal it. but it's for a good reason. it's because he has followed the string of ancient creepy totally non-plausible clues and those clues have revealed to him a big secret. the big secret is that there is a big treasure and to find the big treasure you have to follow the treasure map and the treasure map inconveniently is printed in invisible ink on the
back side of the declaration of independence. and so he has to deal the declaration of independence. not just because he wants the treasure map written in invisible ink on the other side. not just because of that. but because the bad guys have followed the same set of clues that he followed. they have figured out the same secret as him and the bad guys are going to steal the declaration of independence for bad reasons so the good guy has to steal it before they can get to it. that's the plot. at least i think that's the basic plot. there is something about freemasons and pyramids, too. i don't know. probably other parts i missed. honestly, in a movie like this, it doesn't really matter what you miss. trust me, you'll be fine. >> don't you get it, ben? the treasure is a myth. >> i refuse to believe that. >> what he thought was the final clue. >> 108 years of searching and i'm three feet of away.
the declaration of independence. >> you think there is a treasure map on the back of a declaration of independence? >> the map is invisible. >> why would we make this up. >> where is your proof? >> we don't have it. >> word is bound to get out. he is going to steal it. the only way to protect the declaration is to steal it. i don't want to steal the declaration of independence. >> ben? >> it is surrounded by guards and video monitors and little kids on their eighth grade field trip. >> you will go to prison. you know that, right? >> yeah, probably. >> okay, go. >> get out of there. get out of there now. >> he has the bloody map. >> he's got the bloody map! i love the part where nicolas cage would otherwise be shot but he uses the bulletproof-ish
casing of the declaration of independence as body armor. he is fine. how is the document? it took the bullets maybe? this is the 2004 smash hit movie "national treasure" starring nicholas cage. the weekend that it came out in 2004 i have to tell you this movie beat the "spongebob squarepants" movie. it beat even that blockbuster for the number one spot in the u.s. box office. despite the fact that national treasure was viewed as absolutely ridiculous, it ended up grossing like $350 million worldwide. even though it cost an astonishing $100 million to make, it still made a quarter billion dollars in profit on top of that, which, again, is especially mailg when you consider the plot is really like
something, something free mawsons, something, something invisible inge, america, bang, bang, happy ending. there is not a lot to string you along here. it's pretty ridiculous. "the washington post" referenced this movie, "national treasure," in reporting on the current criminal investigation involving former president trump specifically the recent revelations that he apparently absconded from the white house with reams of documents he is not supposed to possess, including highly classified materials and tons of stuff that's not supposed to be stuffed into a bedroom closet at his florida house where he also rents out rooms to paying guests. it's supposed to be at the national archives. and its reporting, "the washington post" pointed out in the minds of many, if not most, americans, when you think of the national archives, if you have an image of that in your mind,
maybe you think of beauty shots like this. maybe you had a family field trip to washington, d.c., and you have seen that building some day. just as likely you think about that nicholas cage movie, where he stole the declaration of independence and used it as a bullet shield while running from the bad guys who were going to steal the treasure. there is a big national archives facility in washington. it's recognizable from the outside. also from the inside. it's got the famous rotunda and the public vaults and big national archives museum. but that's not the only place the national archives is. there are major facilities in seattle and st. louis and fort worth, texas, and kansas city and new york city and riverside, california, and atlanta, broomfield, colorado. a whole bunch of other places as well. the archives maintains federal national federal records centers in cinematic nicholas cage action movie-worthy locations
like lenexa, kansas, and pittsfield, massachusetts, and moraine, ohio, and lee's summit, missouri. the national archives isn't just one headquarters thing in washington. it is a big agency that has extra small, small, medium, large and extra large facilities literally all over the country from coast to coast. national archives as an agency is also responsible for more than a dozen presidential libraries. everybody from herbert hoover through to donald j. trump. although his presidential library so far is just a website. thanks to trump, though, they have now had to increase police patrols around the national archives facility in hoffman's estates, illinois, because that's where the national archives is keeping records from the obama administration. national archives keeps records in hoffman estates, illinois. those records will ultimately be made accessible through the
obama presidential library. and they have now had to increase the police presence at that facility. after the fbi executed a search warrant earlier this month to go seize classified documents and other materials that trump was supposed to give back to the national archives, trump three times made statements online that president obama was somehow the real villain, that he, trump, had done nothing wrong, but obama had taken millions of documents, tons of classified stuff he shouldn't have taken to his home. president obama's home should be raided. all of that from trump is just -- i know you will be shocked it hear this -- 100% bull pucky. the national archives actually has all of obama's presidential records. he doesn't have any of them himself, let alone highly classified stuff stashed in his gold painted bedroom.
when trump made those false claims online about former president obama and his materials from the national archives, police noticed a spike in what was apparently hostile, threatening online chatter about the obama presidential library national archives facility in suburban hoffman estates, illinois. and so, according to "the washington post," police had to increase their patrols there at that national archives building. and that is in keeping with what we now know is an overall increased threat environment towards national archives facilities and national archives staff. ever sincen it emerged trump is under criminal investigation from, among other things, potentially violating the espionage act and then he refused to hand it over. that apparently has been enough to make the national archives the enemy of trump supporters.
nbc news has obtained a letter from the head of the national archives to staff across the country. quote, the national archives has been the focus of scrutiny for months, this week especially with many people ascribing political motivation toss our actions. we received messages from the public accusing of us of corruption and con firing against the former president or congratulating us for bringing him down. neither is accurate or wintery mix welcome. for the past 30 years as a civil ept i have been proud to work for a nonpolitical agency nope for integrity and position as an honest broker. this notion is in our establishing laws and in our very culture. i hold it dear and i know you do, too. our fundamental interest is always ensuring that government record are properly managed, preserved and protected for the life of the republic. that is our mission and what
motivates us as we seek to uphold the public trust. i thank you all of you for your dedication and integrity in carrying it out in a nonpolitical and diligent manner. we will continue do our work in the service of our democracy. that letter going out from the head of the national archives to all nationwide staff of that very large agency. that letter going out as "the washington post" reports, quote, since the fbi's searched former president trump's home to recover classified documents the national archives has become the target of a rash of threat and vitriol. trump's recent actions have whipped his followers into a fervor against the national archives. even in that ridiculous movie national treasure where the most insane things are made to seem super suspicious and sinister,
the clues are on the dollar bill, there the national archives isn't bad. i mean, the national archives is where we keep our country's documents. it's the filing cabinet. it's the library. how can you be mad at the library? o wait. oh, yeah e that's what we're doing now. hysterical culture posturing from the political right is shutting down american libraries now and children's story times at libraries are being targeted for violence an intimidation from the right and school board meetings are turning into scenes of violence and intimidation and harassment as well. and elections workers being threatened and attacked and doxed and harassed. and public health officials and local public health officers and doctors and nurses, and
teachers. depending what the hot topic this week is on the right, some new group of americans working in some aspect of public service is about to start getting threatened and doxed and harassed. it's everything that we cover now. we just had that interview last week with dr. anthony fauci on the occasion of his announcing his retirement after 77 presidents nearly 50 years in public service. dr. fauci never before now had to have a security detail. he has to now because of all the threats to him and his facebook app. below a national figure like that, public health officials, local, city, county, state public health officials out of the country hounded out of their jobs, threatened, harassed, causing the largest professional exodus in modern american history in the middle of our largest public health threat in century. the elections office in a texas county, the whole office, every worker in the elections office, all resigning this month en
masse because they can't handle the threats and harassment of them. for their terrible crime of working like normal public servants to administer totally normal elections. former president trump's social media company posting a link to the unredacted search warrant for mar-a-lago. unredacted in the sense that the one that they posted didn't black out the names of the individual fbi agents who signed off on some of that documentation. after that a trump white house staffer posted personal identifying information for those fbi agents and their families. so trump supporters could hound them and threaten them and intimidate them and target them. the fbi in the department of homeland security having to send out a nationwide alert about a spike in threats to federal law enforcement officials of all kinds. the judge who signed off on the search warrant at mar-a-lago needing security after his address was posted online and trump supporters started threatening him and his synagogue. that's nice.
now apparently it's the national archives staff. the national archives. i mean, talk about the case that proves the point, right? if the federal government were a zoo, the national archives would be like the lop eared bunnies exhibit, the cute little vegetarian monkeys so spall small they could sit in a teaspoon. i mean, even if you want to make the national archives a pulse-pounding source of great excitement, it will cost you $100 million to make that movie and it's going to require fick laos cage and it's going to be too ridiculous to take seriously even for a second. but in this political environment on the right they can generate a murderous rage about the national archives apparently or the fbi or school boards or librarians or teachers or doctors or county public
health boards or the little old ladies who work at the polls on election day. no one is beyond being threatened, doxed, harassed, driven out of public service. it is hard to stay a democracy just in a practical level. it is hard to stay a democracy when all forms of public service, large and small, all jobs in the public life of our democracy come with threats of violence. you can't long hold free and fair elections when it takes bravery to be a poll worker. it should not take bravery to be a poll worker or a file clerk at the archives or an immunologist. the threat of political violence takes normal people out of public life. fords which puts you on a very fast track to the end of democracy at a very practical level. the news today has been dominated by one of the former
president's allies in the u.s. senate promising if trump is indicted for these crimes he is being investigated for there will be, in his words, riots in the street. senator lindsey graham is promising that. he is not speaking out against it saying i hope this doesn't happen and i need to tell my fellow americans i can sense this might be coming and it's wrong. nothing lake that. he is basically promising that's going to happen and wielding that as a threat against the justice department. hey, if a guy on our side is arrested for crimes, we are going to burn the country down. this is the party that wants to be known as the law and order party. the news also dominated for the last couple of days by a lot of details and i think kind of fuzz-ifying the reporting what is happening with the documents that the fbi took back from mar-a-lago. the request from trump for a special master to review those
documents and a florida judge considering the special master request and the filings today, including the filing from the justice department to that judge about the special master and what the justice department has looked at already. i mean, for the people directly involved in, i'm sure all of the minutia, the ins and outs are fascinating. i think it's easy to lose the forest for the trees on a legal tangent like this one. this fight over the special master thing, what this is, is the trump side trying to delay the justice department in its ability to use the documents that they took from mar-a-lago as part of their ongoing criminal investigation. they are trying to delay it and make it more complicated. on the other side the justice department has to wait to hear from the judge exactly what kinds of rules and procedures they have to follow in order to use these documents from mar-a-lago in their ongoing criminal investigation. we expect tomorrow the justice department will make a big long 40-page filing to the judge hearing this dispute about why
they think it should be more simple and straightforward, even though thump thinks it should be more complicated and slower. that's it. how fast and under what circumstances does the justice department get to use the documents that te took in the search warrant towards building their criminal case. and you can get into the weeds if you want to. this can be made to seem more complicated but that's what it boils down to. doj doesn't want that, but in the end they will do whatever the judge says, so the judge will say something. that's it. despite all the ink that that dispute received today, despite all the ink that is definitely going to receive tomorrow, despite all the ink this received over the weekend, i do think it's a fairly easy to understand dispute. we will have to wait to see what the judge says.
beyond that sort of tempest in the teapot, i think there are two other things that seem more interesting and more important to watch right now. one of them is definitely a wait and see thing that we sort of can't push the string on at all. we will just find out when it happens. but the other is something we are going to try to get answers on tonight. the wait and see one is this little reporting from "the washington post." post says, quote, the work of the national archives may not yet be done. some national archives officials believing that there might still be more records missing. now, this is in this post article where they say they spoke to 14 current and former national archives employees and trump advisors and historians and people familiar with what's going on in the cases. 14 sources. one apparently told "the post" there are officials at the archives who think now even after that search warrant was executed by the fbi at
mar-a-lago archives officials still believe trump is holding more documents. he is still hiding more documents that he effectively stole from the government. now, nbc news has not matched that reporting from "the post." as far as we know, no other news organization has either. if that's true, if after the, you know, the pleading letters from the national archives and the contact from the justice department and the subpoena from the justice department and then the search warrant being executed by the fbi, if after all of that there is still more that he is hiding, that's bananas and "the washington post" reports that national archives officials believe there is more. that's definitely worth watching. that is sort of a wait and see. but, wow, if true. and then there is the other thing that i really think is worth watching and it concerns the intelligence community. nbc news was first to obtain a letter from the director of national intelligence explaining how her office is getting
involved in this now in two different ways. first of all, the director of national intelligence is apparently doing a classification review of these materials that trump took and was hiding at mar-a-lago. now, what is a classification review? why is the director of national intelligence doing that and war the implications of that classification review for the broader case? i don't know. we are about to find out on this program tonight. secondly though, the national intelligence director is, according to nbc news, also doing something that's basically a damage assessment. quote, odni, the office of the director of national intelligence, will lead an intelligence community assess. potential risk to national security that would result from the disclosure of the relevant documents. so as federal prosecutors and the fbi are about to get from this florida judge the rules of
the road in terms of how they can use the material they seized from trump in this criminal investigation, as the national archives contends with threats from trump supporters and contends with the prospect that even now trump is still hiding more documents even after the search warrant was executed, as those things move forward the head of the intelligence community is somehow reviewing the classified nature of material trump took and assessing the damage to our market security from what he took. that seems really important to me. it's not like an invisible inge treasure map on back of the search warrant, but it seems important and we are going to get help sorting out what that means with somebody who really knows how these things work. that's next. k. that n'sext. ust a number. and mine's unlisted. try boost® high protein with 20 grams of protein for muscle health. versus 16 grams in ensure high protein.
boost® high protein also has key nutrients for immune support. boost® high protein. [school bells] when pain says, “i'm here,” i say, “so are they.” ♪♪ aleve - who do you take it for?
when you can't sleep... try zzzquil pure zzz's gummies. they help you fall asleep naturally with an optimal dose of melatonin. and a complementary botanical blend. so you can wake up refreshed. for better sleep, like never before. ("this little light of mine") - [narrator] in the world's poorest places, children with cleft conditions live in darkness and shame. they're shunned, outcast, living in pain.
you can reach out and change the life of a suffering child right now. a surgery that takes as little as 45 minutes and your act of love can change a child's life forever. please call or visit operationsmile.org now. thousands of children are waiting. with xfinity internet, you get advanced security that helps protect you at home and on the go. you feel so safe, it's as if... i don't know... evander holyfield has your back. i wouldn't click on that.
hey, thanks! we got a muffin for ed! all right! you don't need those calories. can we at least split it? nope. advanced security that helps protect your devices in and out of the home. i mean, can i have a bite? only from xfinity. nah. unbeatable internet. made to do anything so you can do anything.
in late 2016 the top official at the u.s. justice department who was specifically in charge of national security matters was a woman named mary mccord. being the national security chief at doj is an important job even in normal times, but in late 2016 that was a colossly important job doing unprecedented things. as the justice department began its unprecedented investigation into this national security crisis in which russia decided to interfere in our election in
order to support their favored candidate for president. when the justice department had to send the acting attorney general and a top national security official to the white house in 2017 to warn them that their incoming national security advisor was having secret communications with the russian government, which i was lying about, the people who went it the white house to communicate that message about mike flynn was sally yates and this national security official mary mccord. over a long career in public service under presidents of both parties, she served as a federal prosecutor, an assistant u.s. attorney, deputy chief of appeals in the head of the criminal division in the d.c. attorney's office before becoming top national security and counterintelligence official at main justice during the obama administration. one of her duties was to oversee the justice department unit that is now investigating former president trump's alleged
mishandling of classified documents. with that experience that is perhaps no other -- there is perhaps no other former official better equipped to talk about what a justice department investigation into donald trump for potential national security threats really looks like. and that's what makes me delighted, honored to tell you now that we're being joined by mary mccord. >> format assistant attorney general for doj, a fellow the george washington program on extremism. thank you so much for joining us tonight. it is an honor to have you here. >> thank you. nice to be here,rachel. >> so, i feel like part of what is difficult as -- in reporting on and just trying to be a well informed system on national security matters, particularly when they intersect with intelligence, it's hard to check things that we hear about are from the intelligence community. it's really hard to get second sources on stuff. it's really hard to get official
verification with a lot of things because it's by necessity a pretty opaque world. given that, what can you tell us about what odni is doing right now? they say they are doing a chassfication review and also a damage assessment about these documents that were taken from the former president. can you shed any light for us on what those terms mean and what it means they are really doing? >> sure. and i thits important to focus on this. i am glad that you have because i think there has been so much discussion over the weekend and really the last three weeks about the criminal investigation and just as important is that is this the national security threat posed by the mishandling of highly sensitive, highly classified documents. so the first thing that the director of national intelligence said in that letter to congress that her office, the office of the director of national intelligence and the whole intelligence community would do is a classification review. that means their going to look at documents that have been
seized. the classified ones. and really determine, is that level of classification still the right level of classification. because sometimes classified information over the course of time and events in the world is not necessary to be classified anymore or it could be potentially classified at a different level. so that review is to make sure or check to see what are these documents, are they all still, do they still justify the classifications they have because, as your viewers will know if they looked at the redacted affidavit, some of the unredacted portions explain the different classification levels of review. so from just damage to national security all the way up to exceptionally grave damage to national security. the second thing that the intelligence community is going to do, i think you have accurately referred to as a damage assessment. they will be concerned, very concerned with figuring out to the best of their ability what
types of harm to national security could occur if tease documents, this information or the information in these documents were to fall in people who are not authorized to receive them. that could be foreign adversaries, foreign spies, opportune iists, criminals, et cetera. that means not only looking at the documents themselves and assessing how sensitive are they, but trying to figure out who might have access to them. certainly within mar-a-lago we know this is a place that is open to visitors. there are often foreign guests there. we know these materials were stored at all different locations within the premises and we know that there have been foreign agents or foreign nationals who have gotten into mar-a-lago under false pretenses before. so some of the things that the department has asked for the surveillance videos from within the premises to kind of see who is coming and going, would might
have had access to the different spaces where these documents were found. they are going to be looking to see do we have compromised confidential human sources who are in danger now. do we have intelligence collection methods that are potentially at risk now. do we have foreign intelligence, meaning intelligence shared with us by our foreign governmental lies, that maybe has been compromised. all of these things fwr to go be concerns. do we have critical technologies that are important to our critical infrastructure, our mass transportation, our communication systems, our banking systems, all of these things that potentially are at risk. so all of that is going to go into this damage assessment and that will be ongoing. it won't be something that can be finished in a week or two. that's going to be a continuing process. >> and in terms of the damage assessment and the classification review, i'm assuming that most important, in
the intelligence world, the most important consequence of those reviews is that intelligence community itself and our allies, to the extent that's relevant, gets to use that information to take protective measures to the extent they need to. are the results the things that would be briefed to the oversight committees, for example, to congressional leadership and to the intelligence committees, to the extent that the classification review or the damage assessment turns up information that is relevant in terms of the damage to national security that was caused or potentially caused by the mishandling of these materials. are the results of the odni's reviews, the sorts of things that might be shared with the justice department for the purpose of building their criminal case? >> so there is a lot in that question. i would expect that these intelligence reviews will themselves be classified. so the results of the damage assessment is not going to be public information that we are going to read about in the
"washington post" ort "new york times" or listen to on yourshow. they will be classified. but they are likely to be briefed to the house and senate intelligence committees. those are the committees that oversee intelligence collection that are going to be very, very concerned with the potential damage to national security. they will be briefed to, those entitled to receive that briefing in the intelligence community who will be responsible, as you noted, for sort of taking countermeasures. and that would include people within the justice department. now, the classification review would also be pertinent to any criminal investigation because whether the documents are national defense information, and i know i'm mixing up terms here, but the terms used in the statute, one of the three statutes that was the basis of the search warrant for which there were probable cause within that affidavit for the search warrant, one of those is a
mishandling of national defense information. the words used in the statute are not classified information. it's national defense information. those things tend to be almost one in the same. so highly classified information is almost necessarily ndi or national defense information. it's possible you could have ndi not classified because it hasn't been classified yet. but that classification review will help inform the department of justice as to what ndi was mishandled which would be important to any criminal case charging a violation of that statute. >> i feel like you have taken a bunch of terms that have been conflated and disam big waited them in a really clear and helpful way. mary mccord, again, someone with your experience and clarity of expression is really just invaluable to have you here. thank you so much. >> thank you for having me.   again, just to summarize
there. per reporting from the -- from nbc news, the office of the director of national intelligence is doing that damage assessment in terms of what damage could have potentially been caused here. that was called for by the chairman and the vice chairman, the democratic and republicans, and republican who are the head of the senate intelligence committee, that damage assessment, but also the classification review, which as mary mccord said could very much impact what charges, if any, are ultimately brought against whoever is deemed to be response affordable this mishandling of national security material. more ahead. stay with us. national security l more ahead stay with us
age is just a number. and mine's unlisted. try boost® high protein with 20 grams of protein for muscle health.
versus 16 grams in ensure high protein. boost® high protein also has key nutrients for immune support. boost® high protein. [school bells] when pain says, “i'm here,” i say, “so are they.” ♪♪ aleve - who do you take it for?

man 1: have you noticed the world is on fire? record heat waves? does that worry you? well, it should. because this climate thing is your problem. man 2: 40 years ago, when our own scientists at big oil predicted that burning fossil fuels could lead to catastrophic effects, we spent billions to sweep it under the rug. man 3: so we're going to be fine. but you might want to start a compost pile, turn down the ac. you got a lot of work to do because your kids are going to need it.
.   ever looked at a canister of table salt, it usually says on the label it is iodized, maeng added iodine to the salt even though there isn't a natural place you find iodine. it's a mineral we need as humans and you can get it from food. it's found in seafoods and dairy products, but not something that our bodies make on their own. we need iodine, but to get it we need to ingest it. we need to get it from food or from some kind of supplement. and about 100 years ago we started adding iodine to this commonly used thing, to table salt in this country, because broadly speaking, americans
weren't getting enough iodine on our own. many people had deficiencies. people were having thyroid problems. the part of the body that takes in iodine. if you have an iodine deficiency, that causes thyroid-related problems which can be very serious health consequences. once they starting adding it to table salt it had a big public effect. thyroid problems related to iodine deficiency plummeted. that's why our table salt is iodized to this day. causes no harm and lots of good. and so even if you don't know much about how minerals work in the body, because we have all been eating iodized table salt for a while, we all kind of know this connection between this mineral iodine and the thyroid gland. well, turns out the other circumstance in which that is a handy thing to know is the circumstance of radioactive
fallout. in the event of a nuclear disaster, a nuclear blast, a dirty bomb, a bomb laced with radioactive material or leak or explosion at a nuclear power plant, there is a few different kinds of radioactive particles that are likely to be released. cesium and strontium are two that you might hear about in the context of radioactive fallout. they are two of the really bad ones. if you are exposed to radioactive strontium, your body treats it like calcium which means terrible things for your bones and your bone marrow and your blooped and ultimately a risk of all kinds of cancer. strontium and cesium are terrible. but the most common isotopes associated with a nuclear power plant catastrophe are two different kinds of radioactive iodine. and we know from our, you know, elementary school level table salt understanding of basic
biology that it's the thyroid that takes up iodine in the body. and that's where this matters. in the event of a radiation disaster where people are exposed to radioactive fallout, one of the immediate and most common risks is lots of people will get thyroid cancer because one of the most common things released in radioactive fallout are radioactive iodine. we absorb it, we take it into our thyroids. if it is radioactive iodine, we are going to get thyroid cancer because of it. it's a scary concept, i know. everything with radiation and nuclear accidents is terrifying. even so, just a little bit of understanding is helpful because just like with table salt, just a little bit of understanding is enough to get you to an understanding of this one practical consequence. again, we need iodine in our bodies. we absorb iodine in our thyroid gland. but we don't do so infinitely.
the thyroid takes in iodine but the thyroid can only take in so much. it can become saturated. once it's saturated it won't take in any more. so you see where this is going, right? in the event of a radiation disaster where lots are people will be exposed to radioactive fallout, one of the things you do in that circumstance is make sure that people have iodine tablets. that they can take number right away before they are exposed to fallout. if you take an iodine tablet your thyroid is saturated. when the radioactive iodine comes your way, your thyroid is already full. you will avoid getting thyroid cancer. the cdc explains it this way. think of filling a jar with blue marbles. if you then pour green marbles over the jar, there won't be any room for them inside the jar. they will just spill out.
nobody should proactively dose themselves with iodine like this as a matter of course. this is a circumstance where there is a nuclear disaster on your doorstep. but if there is a nuclear disaster on your doorstep it is a good form of protection to have on hand. and as of this past friday iodine pills are now being distributed in ukraine in the areas surrounding the zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant. it's europe's largest nuclear power plant. and officials are now officially giving out those iodine pills to anybody who lives within a 30-mile radius of that nuclear power plant. tens of thousands of people. people there, men, women and children are being told do not take the iodine pills preemptively. in case of an accident or disaster, radiation exposure, take these to protect yourself. and fortunately that is a very practical concern right now. russian forces continue to control-ish that nuclear plant. it is of course in the middle of
a war zone where there is constant shelling posing huge risks to the facility. the plant was disconnected from the power grid late on friday. it was later reconnected. that disconnection from a power source could have brought about disaster by other means. ukraine is having to do something very simple, very practical, and very terrifying in equal measures. we will talk about the practice cal tease about it and the risks here next. stay with us. risks here next. stay with us to a child, this is what conflict looks like. children in ukraine are caught in the crossfire of war, forced to flee their homes. a steady stream of refugees has been coming across all day. it's basically cold.
lacking clean water and sanitation. exposed to injury, hunger.  exhausted and shell shocked from what they've been through. every dollar you give can help bring a meal, a blanket, or simply hope to a child living in conflict. please call or go online to givenowtosave.org today with your gift of $10 a month, that's just $0.33 a day. we cannot forget the children in places like syria, born in refugee camps, playing in refugee camps, thinking of the camps as home. please call or go online to givenowtosave.org today. with your gift of $10 a month, your gift can help children like ara in afghanistan, where nearly 20 years of conflict have forced the people into extreme poverty weakened and unable to hold herself up, ara was brought to a save
the children's center, where she was diagnosed and treated for severe malnutrition. every dollar helps. please call or go online to givenowtosave.org today. with your gift of $10 a month, just $0.33 a day. and thanks to special government grants that are available now, every dollar you give can multiply up to ten times the impact. and when you use your credit card, you'll receive this special save the children tote bag toshowyou won't forget the children who are living their lives in conflict. every war is a war against children. please give now.
i've never been healthier. shingles doesn't care. but shingrix protects. proven over 90% effective, shingrix is a vaccine used to prevent shingles in adults 50 years and older. shingrix does not protect everyone and is not for those with severe allergic reactions to its ingredients or to a previous dose. an increased risk of guillain-barré syndrome was observed after getting shingrix. fainting can also happen. the most common side effects are pain, redness and swelling at the injection site, muscle pain, tiredness, headache, shivering, fever, and upset stomach. ask your doctor or pharmacist about shingrix today. age is just a number. and mine's unlisted. try boost® high protein with 20 grams of protein for muscle health. versus 16 grams in ensure high protein. boost® high protein also has key nutrients for immune support. boost® high protein.

of the nuclear policy program at the carn aggy endowment for international peace. i appreciate you taking time to be here tonight. thank you. >> thanks for having me on. >> so ukraine is reportedly started counteroffensive against russia. there is now state department data that shows that russia is running terrifying camps inside russia to which they apparently are floresably deporting lots of ukrainian civilians. the headlines are all very worrying. there is a lot to worry about in the russia/ukraine war. as a nuclear expert i want to take your temperature as to how worried you are that we might have a nuclear stent or radiation disaster at this huge nuclear power plant in zaporizhzhia. >> i am genuinely worried about that. nuclear plant is not designed to
be in the middle of a war zone. i think people have an image of a missile hitting the core of a reactor and disbursing radiation. that's unlikely. there is the cooling equipment for the plant which is potentially exposed and vulnerable and deliberately or accidentally that could be hit in a war, sparking on accident sequence that leads to a large release of radiation. >> so the cooling equipment, which again this is a flant makes power. but the plant requires power to keep the cooling equipment going. could you explain why that is such a point of vulnerability? >> yes. so the core of a reactor produces very large amount of radioactivity. that becomes very hot and that heat has to be taken somewhere. and to so you need this kind of nuclear power plant, you need to be cooling it actively. you have electricity connections to the outside world. in the event that those fail, you have emergency diesel generators on site.
zaporizhzhia is also connected to a thermal power plant. something like coal or gas that's an extra source of electricity. hot water from inside the plant is basically straight up in the air in so-called spray ponds. you can see them there on the screen right now, in order to cool it before that water is recycled. all of this critical equipment related to cooling is outside of the core of the plant. and one could imagine an accident sequence perhaps involving shelling and fires and firefighters unable to get to the site that could lead to the destruction of the equipment, heat build up in the core and eventually what we saw into fukushima with the melting of nuclear fuel and the disbursing of radiation. >> are you hopeful about the u.n. investigators who are arriving at the plant this week? >> i am very glad the u.n. is going in. the iaea is going in, rather.
we shouldn't be -- we should be realistic about what they can achieve. they are inspectors. it's their job to report on what's going on in the plant to assess the safety and security features on the plant and to report back. they don't have a magical way of defending the plant or repairing broken equipment. and so ultimately it's up to russia to behave responsibly, to agree to demilitarize the area around the plant. unfortunately, i am not optimistic they will start behaving response play at this juncture. >> james acton, sir, thank you for your time tonight. scary stuff. good to talk to you. we'll be right back. stuff. good to talk to you. we'll be right back. just the three of us girls. i never thought twice about feeding her kibble. but about two years ago, i realized she was overweight. she was always out of breath. that's when i decided to introduce the farmer's dog to her diet. it's just so fresh
that she literally gets bubbles in her mouth. now she's a lot more active she's able to join us on our adventures. and we're all able to do things as a family. ♪♪ get started at longlivedogs.com
hi, i'm debra. i'm from colorado. ♪♪ i've been married to my high school sweetheart for 35 years. i'm a mother of four-- always busy. i was starting to feel a little foggy. just didn't feel like things were as sharp as i knew they once were. i heard about prevagen and then i started taking it about two years now. started noticing things a little sharper, a little clearer. i feel like it's kept me on my game. i'm able to remember things. i'd say give it a try. prevagen. healthier brain. better life. when you really need to sleep. you reach for the really good stuff. zzzquil ultra helps you sleep better and longer when you need it most. its non-habit forming and powered by the makers of nyquil.
lily! welcome to our third bark-ery. oh, i can tell business is going through the “woof”. but seriously we need a reliable way to help keep everyone connected from wherever we go. well at at&t we'll help you find the right wireless plan for you. so, you can stay connected to all your drivers and stores on america's most reliable 5g network. that sounds just paw-fect. terrier-iffic i labra-dore you round of a-paws at&t 5g is fast, reliable and secure for your business.
hi, my name's steve. i lost 138 pounds on golo at&t 5g is fast, and i kept it off. so with other diets, you just feel like you're muscling your way through it. the reason why i like golo is plain and simple, it was easy. i didn't have to grit my teeth and do a diet. golo's a lifestyle change and you make the change and it stays off. golo's changed my life in so many ways. i sleep better, i eat better. took my shirt off for the first time in 25 years. it's golo. it's all golo. it's smarter, it's better, evening lawrence. it will change your life forever. or with lawrence o'good evening rae luck sleeping tonight after listening to james acton talking about that nuclear power plant situation. you know it i did one about the one house