across the networks of nbc news, thank you for staying up late and i will see this weekend. this weekend. right really happy to have you here we are less than 30 days out now from the election. we have been joined in just a moment here by the man who is in charge of the democratic party's efforts to hold the united states senate and that is quite a job the polling averages shipshowright now that the prospects for both parties in the senate are equal as of today and literally if what the polling says today when the matching the vote on election day it will be 50/50 in the senate. so, in terms of control of the direction of the country every
race really matters. every seat really matters. every candidate really matters. it is just on a knife's edge on a personal level, for voting this cell for the year. this so it really will matter. the selection is going to be very tight and very very interesting. i will be very consequential. if the polling bears out and election day looks anything like the polls say it's going to look today. we will be talking with the man in charge of the democratic parties in the senate are obviously super high stakes job super difficult job still to who would you rather be but you rather be the senate guy for the democrats right now would you rather be the senate guy for the republicans who
tomorrow has to go to the state of georgia and say that everybody vote for herschel walker because when you look at herschel walker take it for me we want you to know that that's what republicans stand for. now, we will not be taking questions about the holding a gun to a woman's head. nor will we take questions about the secret children that was a lot to talk about what he ran on a supposed family values. nor will we take any questions about the abortions even though he wants all abortions band but about the times when he said he ran six hospitals and then it graduated from college laurel be taken questions about his fantasies that he runs the country's largest upholstery business and gigantic chicken businesses which in fact he does not run, normally be taking questions about the times he said he was a law enforcement officer or the time he claimed to be an fbi agent
and know he is not an fbi agent, he is not a police officer even though he said he was both we will not be answering questions about those matters today but to please vote for the man anyways. republican party values, i'm here to a test i mean, your job me second i hope it doesn't, hope you have a great job but even if your job sucks you're still not rick scott. that was your job, republican senator rick scott is running the campaign for republicans. tomorrow he's really gonna have to do that to try to say that georgia senate race for the republican party unfortunately for them it's herschel walker. the democratic counterpart doesn't have problems like that to contend with, even though tough road at home. the democratic senate campaign
committee is run by senator gary peters on the republican side this year and gary peters of michigan's gonna be live in a few minutes and we are very much looking forward that conversation but it's tempting in years like this to look at some of these astonishing candidates and think it can't have ever been worse in this. how did it get so bad it's been bad in the past but it's never been this bad. what is gonna come out next? but then there is the republican candidate for senate in arizona. his vote for the most underrated thinker as the unabomber. this is not a circumstance where he was given a test that is multiple choice the only possible answer was like satan, stolen or the unabomber. wasn't like he could choose the best among that is an open
question. he volunteered at the one he likes the unabomber. >> a subversive think that is underrated? >> yeah. >> i probably get in trouble for saying this but i would say habit like theodore kaczynski go to one actually. >> probably not great to be talking about the unabomber while campaigning. >> i don't know that wasn't like a youthful indiscretion that was like this year while he is running and now he's the publican nominee for senate in the great state of arizona everybody. if you didn't like that the unabomber couldn't get more of what he wanted just elect him and see. i mean so it's tempting when you have herschel walker in georgia and that guy in arizona. then you have the snake oil
claxton plummet salesman, green coffee beans as a republican candidate in pennsylvania. it is tempting to look at that slate and think that something has gone wrong and a uniquely bad way this year. no political party is already face canada parties this bad but as bad as it is right now, it has been worse i swear i don't know if it's comforting to know that when the opposite. but here me out, it has been worse. the great state of north dakota there is a really obvious ranked corruption scheme in the state government and the state's governor was in on it. and per an order in the state's governor it's amazing it didn't resign as governor.
and it didn't resign, in fact he refused to leave office like she was gonna stay in office anyway, he barricaded himself into the governor's office. he surrounded himself with supporters. -- he was succeeding from the union he declared that the united states would lose the state. he would be independent from the federal government and he would stay in power by force. it was resolved, it was a very interesting story there too. but through that whole insurrection and that political
party. it's still stood by him and still loved him right after his armed insurrection at the state house barricading himself in the office that he saved often doesn't power. a few years after that the republican party and it was the best man in the whole state. this united states senate i'll be battling for the united states of america, except when i'm battling to get rid of united states of america. so that can stay in power by force. just an amazing tale mostly forgotten but an amazing tale. and yes, here today in 2022 it is bananas that the republican
party as the day for the unabomber guy in all of these other guys but i actually find that comforting i find it energizing to know that this is not the first go around the people that you can't believe are anywhere near real power. we have contended with problems like this in the past. with the north dakota got elected to the u.s. senate in 1940 from north dakota, his record was so insane, his recent exploits and ice dakota were so blatantly illegal that the u.s. senate actually had to decide after the election whether they were going to allow him to take his seat given that he had tried succeeding in declared martial law. he had an armed insurrection against the government. also the corruption charges that started all of it, hidden arrow down there was a lot to work with here. and when he won the senate race,
as republican would-be colleagues would have to take a vote on whether he would have to be whether he could take a seat and whether or not his moral turpitude was too much to allow him to be seated as u.s. senator so he considered it and decided in the end that it was fine and they voted to see them and therefore they took it as a u.s. senator and then in his first term as u.s. senator the justice department brought the largest mass sedition indictment in u.s. history against 49 defendants charged with undermining the armed forces, seeking to overthrow the government by force and taken support from the law government in germany to do so that sedition case itself was astonishing and it took a whole bunch of amazing twists and turns and when that indictment was brought into federal court
in washington the loudest and most outspoken champion the biggest defender and the loudest ally was senator william the guy from north dakota who himself had mounted an armed standoff to defy the rule of law who is nevertheless supported by several republicans because what could possibly go wrong the story this forgotten senator and they accuse seditionist that he so loudly supported in washington, that is part of my new podcast just launched today it is the story members apart congress that implicated and terrible stuff. and in the justice department tried to act in the courts and in the justice department and student investigation and brought a criminal prosecution of people involved in plots to violently overthrow the government these members of
congress sprang into action to save themselves and to derail the investigation into the threats to throw the results of a presidential election to have an authoritarian government here instead of a democracy and january six 2021 was really something and the members of congress who were tied up in it. the sedition trials that have just started this month for these pro trump military groups were part of it it's an amazing thing that we're going through the country right now. but this is not the first time that we've been through something along these lines. and i can tell, you spending all these months working on this project, working on the story i don't think it is a spoiler to tell you that one of the main takeaways for us, at least one of the main takeaways for me looking at what happened last time that we are up against something like this, is that the criminal law can't do
everything we can ever count on it all be settled in the courtroom. when the country is dealing with election denialism, ultra right groups willing to use violence to get their way. those are crimes and there is a rule for the courts and the prison system. but there's also an important role for the whole of society criminal justice system isn't bulletproof but also doesn't address the nature of the crimes in their totality. so to effectively combat this when it comes to undo elections and that power being achieved and maintained there is not only room but a necessity from
the whole of society response for activism, for journalism and political organizing to keep those folks away from real power. like i said, i see a way in which you learn that we've been through something like this before and that can be draining. on the other hand knowing that we faced before there been americans before that knew how to defeat those forces, that to me is energizing an interesting. it's a story of one of the top four months. not been working on for months now. it's for, you can get anywhere you get your podcast the title asrachelmaddowpresents ultra. now tonight as i mentioned we speak with the man in charge of the democratic parties we are
also joined by john kirby because russia today just launched bigger attacks on ukraine than anything they've dense since the start of the war back in february. putin is going to do this now and just keep up what he did today and russia will just be shooting long range missiles and the civilian population centers in ukraine, that is a pretty profound escalation of the war and it's worth asking if it's an escalation for how we can help ukraine survive this war and help them when it we also be checking on the big debate tonight in ohio the one senate debate and democrat tim ryan everybody thought at this election season that ohio had gone so read recently that the
democratic tim ryan would never chants know how this year. instead tim ryan is running a great campaign and is proving to be an underwhelming candidate where the ohio polls it's a tie. the candidates are debating tonight we're gonna check on that in a moment and we have lots to get to tonight, so stay with us. ♪ it's the most wonderful time of the year ♪ claritin provides non-drowsy symptom relief from over 200 indoor
and outdoor allergens, day after day. feel the clarity and make today the most wonderful time of the year. live claritin clear. research shows that people remember ads with young people having a good time. so to help you remember that liberty mutual customizes your home insurance, here's a pool party. look what i brought! liberty mutual! they customize your home insurance... so you only pay for what you need! ♪young people having a good time with insurance.♪ ♪young people.♪ ♪good times.♪ ♪insurance!♪ only pay for what you need. ♪liberty liberty. liberty. liberty.♪ my mental health was much better. my mind was in a good place. but my body was telling a different story.
i felt all people saw were my uncontrolled movements. some mental health meds can cause tardive dyskinesia, or td, and it's unlikely to improve without treatment. ingrezza is a prescription medicine to treat adults with td movements in the face and body. it's the only treatment for td that's one pill, once-daily, with or without food. ingrezza 80 mg is proven to reduce td movements in 7 out of 10 people. people taking ingrezza can stay on their current dose of most mental health meds. don't take ingrezza if you're allergic to any of its ingredients. ingrezza may cause serious side effects including sleepiness. don't drive, operate heavy machinery, or do other dangerous activities until you know how ingrezza affects you. other serious side effects include potential heart rhythm problems and abnormal movements. it's nice people focus more on me. ask your doctor about ingrezza, #1 prescribed for td. learn how you could pay as little as zero dollars at ingrezza.com. the fact that on january 6th we


had 140 cops united states capitol police get injured during the insurrection and they tried to overthrow the government and beat him upside the head with lead pipes spray them with pepper spray the one video is of the covenant came to the door j.d. vance raised money for the legal defense front of the insurrectionist. this is the kind of extremism that we reject. don't even try to deny it we've got your twitter post and everything else we have seen it. they said helpless guys with your legal defense that could you imagine one guy sitting on one side of his mouth that his pro cop and the other side of his mouth-ing he's raising money for the insurrectionist who are beating of the capital police. this one guy tried to get four years in prison it's ridiculous. that was a moment from the debate tonight the one and only
from a u.s. seat in ohio you saw tim ryan speaking there and j.d. vance that's abate happening tonight ohio it could determine which of the two parties controls the u.s. senate after this november's election but frankly that is true of every other senate race this year because the fight for control of the senate appears to just be so close with a 29 days left to go. this weekend political noted that if you look at the pure mat of the polling averages for every senate race a polling averagesshowthat they're each poised to end up with 50 seats in the senate. polling isn't the same as voting, but as far as that's concerned it couldn't be closer you can tell how closer to parties thinks elections gonna be just by looking how they are
going to spend their non infinite resources in these races democrats for example are racing to put new money into the race for north carolina's open senate seat the democratic candidate there a forming unexpectedly well against a republican opponent he is one of the guys that is currently saying he won't say if he's accepting if he loses and on the other side just over the weekend we saw the republican start to pull money out of what they thought was gonna be a competitive race they now might be giving up after matty hassan continues to pull ahead of her far-right republican challenger, who is a trump guy is an election denier. some difficult candidates and races they cannot afford to lose rick scott is in charge of
republican campaign, he's going to lead a desperate republican trip to georgia to try to rally all the forces around herschel walker there amid walkers violent scandals that are just spiraling out of control in his campaign right now that is in georgia but 29 days to go it matters nervous and one of the states. joining us now is sarah gary peters -- he is in charge of the democratic party's efforts to hold the senate this november. i appreciate you making the time to be here thank you for being here. so we are seeing both parties both you and the republicans starting to move money around in the difficult decisions about priorities in these races as we move into the final month how are those decisions getting made? how do you decide which races
to focus on we are focused on the races on the razor's edge but as you mentioned in the opening this is gonna be an incredibly tight election season. it's gonna come right down to the wire and certainly we need to raise resources i mean right now we have republicans pouring in super pac money into these races. we don't have that kind of money and we really count on graphics routes folks so as well as our individual candidates this is why we have defend the senate doesn't work which is our website to raise the grassroots money that we need to compete against. and then we take a look at them every single day right now candidates raising individual money is critically important as well as mobilizing people on the ground when you're in a race of margin of error which these races are. it is gonna come down to voter turnout.
it will come down to volunteers people knocking doors and folks helping campaigns to help folks out. that requires resources at the very end but this is literally something that we are looking at every single day and making sure those who are in the margin get what they need and we can act as the calgary as well in those final few days which is why it's important for us to have the resources. defend the senate dot org exception important part for us to not only hold the majority which is my number one goal to bring back incumbents when we do that but we also need to have additional seats and we need have great opportunities to do that. >> let me ask you more about that ohio race i've been watching the debate tonight and tim ryan did land a number of proverbial around house blows on j.d. vance in this debate tonight and it is time talking about january 6th insurrection
also hitting him on opioids and vance's own history and campaigning on that issue will maybe making it worse tim ryan did very well in this debate and he has recently said that he feels alone. he said it's david against goliath and every candidates more wants more resources but has he been on his own are those comments. correct do you think a late fusion of these money resources could potentially put him right over the finish line here. >> certainly he needs resources there is no question about that as all of our candidates to right now. we have help congressman ryan. he has an absolutely phenomenal candidate and he is going against a person who i think is not qualified and is certainly a horrible individual who is an election denier as you saw on
that video. he has also made horrible comments regarding the fact that he doesn't believe in cases of rape that there should be any kind of exemption from abortion laws. in fact, he called women who have suffered from a violent rape attack when asked about the exception of rape he said well rape is inconvenient. rape is not inconvenient j.d. vance it is catastrophic for women and that's why he cannot be in the senate. we have to do everything we can to beat this guy we need individual contributes to support tim ryan and send resources to tim ryan because a super pac such as flooding the zone in ohio and the only reason j.d. vance has been able to hold on right now. is he has trump backed super pacs that are pouring money into his race. tim ryan is fighting gallantly and they've been helpful i certainly worked to raise money
for him around the country as i traveled around the country but we are certainly going to be there for all of our candidates when they need us you mentioned the issue of abortion and i'm mindful of a conversation that you and i had on theshowtwo years ago now. >> it's a very memorable conversation, a personal, painful story that you told here on theshowabout complication of pregnancy in your life facing life-threatening medical complications when the hospital denied her the abortion that she needed to save her life. now, just two years after you and i had that conversation you told that story here. conservative justice has overturned roe v. wade, republicans are pursuing -- it suing abortion bans and i
wonder how you see this factoring into the decisions that you have to make about candidates in the overall fight for the majority in the senate and have that concern and very real issue, which i know is very personal to you effects a you approach your work on the senate race. >> it's incredibly important and we knew what would happen with the supreme court with the republicans got their way and it is an absolutely horrible decision that now makes very clear that women's reproductive freedom is on the ballot and right now doesn't matter what state you live in because the republicans are pushing a national ban without exception. this will impact peoples lives in a significant way. so we are certainly focused on that issue hublot but this
lowers the cost of prescription drugs. it also lowers and allows us to have renewable energy to deal with climate change. it wants to bring down energy costs for americans. every single republican voted against that legislation. they wanted to be on the side of big pharmaceutical companies. there's a very clear contrast in this race and if you look at the contrast between the republican candidates people like raphael warnock the gulf between these two could not be wider. the race is all razor thin and we need help we must win the only way we win is if we lock arms with folks all across this country, they defend the senate dot org. i'd also encourage folks to pick a candidate when that you would like in gift to those individual candidates if you
defend all the candidates you can support our key races in this country each and every one of them is absolutely critical to protect our democracy and deal with issues that people care so deeply about. >> gary peters as head of the campaign committee. thank you for your time tonight, i know it's crunch time from here to november. thank you for being here with us tonight. >> we have much more ahead tonight stay with us. t stay with us age comes with wisdom. and wisdom comes with benefits. dryer's broken okay... you want a socket.... that's especially true when it comes to medicare. so make the wise call and learn more about
cigna medicare plans in your area. their tools and resources make it simple and easy. bears can smell wifi. visit cignawisecall.com today. you want to flip it.

girls trip. ♪ it's the most wonderful time of the year ♪ get fast relief of your worst allergy symptoms. including nasal congestion. with powerful claritin-d. so you can breathe better. feel the clarity and make today the most wonderful time of the year. claritin - d. what's for dinner? panera! freshly prepared with clean ingredients. it's not just a night off from cooking. it's a delicious night on... for everyone at the table. panera. only $1 delivery fee on our app.
naomi: every year the wildfires, the smoke seems to get worse. jessica: there is actual particles on every single surface. dr. cooke: california has the worst air pollution in the country. the top 2 causes are vehicles and wildfires. prop 30 helps clean our air. it will reduce the tailpipe emissions that poison our air kevin: and helps prevent the wildfires that create toxic smoke that's why calfire firefighters, the american lung association, and the coalition for clean air support prop 30. naomi: i'm voting yes on 30. when a truck hit my car, naomi: i'm voting yes on 30. the insurance company wasn't fair. i didn't know what my case was worth. so i called the barnes firm. i was hit by a car and needed help. i called the barnes firm, that was the best call i could've made. i'm rich barnes. it's hard for people to know how much their accident case is worth. let our injury attorneys help you get the best result possible. >> that is footage today from ♪ the barnes firm injury attorneys ♪ ♪ call one eight hundred, eight million ♪
the subway system in kyiv, and the capital city of ukraine. that last little bit that you heard there translate as glory to ukraine and glory to the heroes. it's a national suit when they won in the 19 twenties. in the capital city of kyiv today a modern european cosmopolitan city kyiv. subways were filled with singing and displays of ukrainian pride this kindergarten class we located entirely down into the subway station desks and all for the
whole kindergarten the kids are there singing the national anthem. >> all the kids and grown-ups had to head underground today in kyiv because this is what it looked like above ground and keep today. today russia launched the largest air strike since the start of the war saying that they were retaliating for the attack this weekend on the newly built bridge to crimea. of course another part of ukraine that russia took several years ago. the attacks by russia today were not carried out by russian troops making ground advances. the ukrainian military has been pushing russian forces back in retaking parts of ukraine that they had invaded with ground troops and what happened today all over ukraine including in western ukraine far from the frontlines what happened today were these long-range russian airstrikes on population centers including the capital city on civilian infrastructure
and that poses a big question for us for the united states and as of now one of the items on ukraine's wish list that we have not given them as a long-range missile systems. so they could answer russian long range airstrikes in kind hours after russia launched these attacks today the un general assembly started debating a condemnation of russia for illegally taking over these parts of ukraine. tomorrow they will have an emergency meeting at the g7 where volodymyr zelenskyy will speak to the g7 leaders and he's been urgently asking world leaders for more help in the last few days. the latest readout, we have a call specifically between zelenskyy and president biden. it shows president biden talking to zelenskyy about the continued support with advanced
hair systems. air defense means shooting down airborne threats from the enemy that's not about whether they should get new capacity to launch new attacks themselves. do the attacks all across ukraine today by russia start to change the american view about what ought to happen what is the range of choice available to the u.s. and our ally what happens in ukraine if russia keeps that this new type of battle and ukraine doesn't get anything more than they have already? joining us now is the admiral of united states navy, former press secretary and presidents national security. >> thank you for making the time >> it's good to be with, you thank you. so i can't leave that the wrong way around ours are anything important i'm leaving out just in some of that it briefly there now is that that was uttered if equate introduce our
conversation tonightrachelthe conversations president-elect ski was useful and helpful for president biden. it is important for president biden to portray to zelenskyy that we will continue our support. as the president said for as long as it takes and it includes as you did in your introduction continue defense we have 1400 stingers their air defense missiles and we have helped get through other countries some longer range air defense systems. the essex hundred which is something that the opinions are comfortable using just recently we can produce a national air and missile system which will also greatly improve their ability to have air defense purposes so we will stay committed to this talk to them every day like we did today and make sure we meet their needs as best we can.
>> being able to disrupt, intercept shoot down russian incoming it's one thing, but we know that the ukrainians won't advanced rocket systems and are not gonna break news here in terms of what we will give ukraine but what can you explain to us about the thought process and in which way they can operate to both help but not go too far to prevent should provoke a russian nato conflict. . the these are conversations that we are having with them almost every day. if you remember way back in february when this war started those javelin anti tank. and they needed to get those armored vehicles stopped this more short-range air defense.
as putin decided he was gonna focus on open farmland, ukraine's knew they needed artillery. they have the ability to hit targets faraway in the ground from the ground so it provided dozens and dozens of artillery pieces, as well as tens of thousands of ammunition for them as well as these high bars that i know you've been talking about for the advanced rocket systems that are highly mobile they've almost 20 of those in the ground. so we're gonna keep evolving the needs as the war changes and you are starting to see a zelenskyy said today, clearly a stronger need right now for air defense. we will keep changing this to make sure we meet their needs. they are literally in the fight
of her life and i think some of that shows the degree of which putin was going after civilian infrastructure and civilian targets for no regard for their life. we know the fight is serious there and we will keep making sure that the capabilities we give them or helping them in that fight, helping them defend their territory. >> i think a capacity as criminologists of waxed and waned of the course of my lifetime terms of how much we understand about what is actually happening but i think there's been a lot of reporting recently the real hard-liners within the russian power structure have been exerting a lot of pressure on putin to escalate attacks on ukraine and that's what he's responding to. we saw reflection of that and i thought today when we saw the ukrainians say that we don't believe today's missile strikes but russia were in response to the bridge attack this weekend
we think that these are planned even before the bridges hit. that would imply the putin is responding to other pressures rather than just retaliating for that one attack. how important is it for us to understand what is motivating putin at any one day. >> it's always important to understand the decision-making process over there because of the toll it's literally taking on the people between antarctica tell yourachelthat we have perfect visibility and how mr. putin thinks or what is next move is going to be we just don't we can just judged by his actions and ceos unfolding on the battlefield which forms how -- there's a case fee made here that these attacks today were probably planned quite a while ago and you think about the size and scale more than 80 missiles in today's attack the
russians can't throw something like that together just a couple of days. so there are some credibility to the idea that this itself wasn't just a retaliation but maybe the accelerated a little bit but i don't know what we've seen today is in keeping with the attacks on civilian infrastructure. we have been seeing it over the last months to six weeks so we see it as a continuation of the brutality but the wanton disregard for the innocent life inside ukraine is very much in keeping with that track. where it goes from here we don't know and nobody wants to see this war escalate beyond the level of death and destruction that it has already visited on the ukraine people have talked about this in the past but we have been mindful as we go through the security systems in ukraine, making sure that we are thinking through escalation management issues as we do that because again having
this war escalate beyond where it is and having it through the use of weapons of mass destruction would not only be horrible for the ukrainian people but would have affects well beyond just ukraine and quite frankly around the world. >> john kirby retired admiral the united states navy and a spokesperson for the security council so it's always an honor to have time whenever you can afford it to us and thank you so much for being here. >> thanksrachel's always good to be with you, much more ahead to be with you, much more ahead tonight thanks the freedom from religion foundation, the nation's largest and most effective association of atheists and agnostics working to keep state and church separate, just like our founders intended. please join the freedom from religion foundation today. ron reagan, lifelong atheist, not afraid of burning in hell.
i'm on a mission to talk to people about getting screened for colon cancer, and hear their reasons why. i screen for my son. i'm his biggest fan. if you're 45 or older at average risk, you have screening options, like cologuard. cologuard is noninvasive and finds 92% of colon cancers. it's not for those at high risk. false positive and negative results may occur. ask your provider if cologuard is right for you. everyone has a reason to screen for colon cancer. if you're 45 or older,
get started at missiontoscreen.com when it was time to sign up for a medicare plan... mom didn't know which way to turn. but thanks to the right plan promise from unitedhealthcare she got a medicare plan expert to help guide her to the right plan with the right care team behind her. ♪ wow, uh-huh.♪ and for her, it's a medicare plan with the aarp name. i hope i can keep up! the right plan promise, only from unitedhealthcare. get help finding your plan at uhc.com/medicare.

changing microscopic batteries. now this is eargo. and they're rechargeable. can it get any easier? >> and i feel like there's
that's the eargo difference. nothing we can agree on as americans and these times maybe puppies or ice cream obviously dolly parton yes but politically is there anything at the vast vast majority of us agree on but there is this. but overwhelming margins, american support legislation to lower the price of prescription drugs, by huge margin they would allow medicare to negotiate with drug companies make drugs cheaper. americans who support that is like 70 or 80%. it's like puppies. but lo and behold, representative democracy is broken out the included a provision when they passed a big inflation reduction act
this past summer voter said it was a favorite part of the bill. democratic's kept at their they passed they'd been pursuing went to president biden signed into law on august there's something americans have wanted by huge margins for margins and it became the very very popular law of the land congratulations plus the same bill put a cap on how much seniors have to pay for drugs overall including insulin, also hugely popular and the democrats got it done and get it passed and that is how things stand in my law under the legislation the president biden signed american seniors will be paying less for the prescription drugs. not will ever have to pay more than $2,000 a year. the price of drugs would be negotiated down. for everyone it's done in the law. one month out of the election republicans have unveiled their
new plan a new bill on this issue. a bill that would do one thing, it would undo all that stuff no more negotiating it's literally a bill to make prescription drugs more expensive for senior citizens, that's the only thing it will do. one of the co-sponsors of this bill is republican senator who is admits a formidable challenger and police chief eldon is running against him. did i mention this is the senate race in florida? florida has the second highest number of medicare sapiens of any state in the country to running for senate in florida
any of the sponsor legislation to raise drug prices for all senior citizens a month out from the election that is an amazing closing argument biden pardoning everybody for proposition republicans literally pursuing a national abortion land and a bill designed to raise the prescriptions for all people how is this a closing argument? but it is we will be right back. k. so you only pay for what you need. showtime. whoo! i'm on fire tonight. (limu squawks) yes! limu, you're a natural. we're not counting that. only pay for what you need. ♪liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty.♪
♪ ♪ only pay for what you need. luxury exemplified. innovation electrified. with apple music seamlessly integrated. the all-new, all-electric eqs suv from mercedes-benz.
introducing the new sleep number climate360 smart bed. the only smart bed in the world that actively cools, warms and effortlessly responds to both of you. our smart sleepers get 28 minutes more restful sleep per night. proven quality sleep. only from sleep number.
girls trip. ♪ it's the most wonderful time of the year ♪ get fast relief of your worst allergy symptoms. including nasal congestion. with powerful claritin-d. so you can breathe better. feel the clarity and make today the most wonderful time of the year. claritin - d. ♪ ♪ if you're on medicare, remember, the annual enrollment period is here. the time to choose your coverage... ends december 7th. so talk to unitedhealthcare... and take advantage of a broad range of plans... including an aarp medicare advantage plan from unitedhealthcare. it can combine your hospital and doctor coverage... with prescription drug coverage, and more, all for a low monthly premium or in some areas, no plan premium at all. take advantage of $0 copays on primary care visits,
and lab tests. plus more dental coverage than ever before, you'll also get free yearly eye exams... and $0 copays and deductibles on hundreds of prescriptions. i want to thank it everyone for so call unitedhealthcare about the variety of plans we offer, including ppo plans that let you see any doctor who accepts medicare, without a referral. enrollment ends december 7th. take advantage now. call or go online today. ♪ ♪ the kind notes and nice tweets and brand-new podcastrachelmaddowpresents ultra it is about some forgotten and i think very relevant recent experience. fighting a violent authoritarianism here at home
and they posted next week on monday. on the tonightshowwith jimmy fallon is at 11:35 pm eastern and i'll be right here with alex wagner at 9 pm eastern about the last word with lawrence o'donnell in a hot minute the last word with lawrence o'donnell starts now good evening lawrence i'll find my way overdue in real life. >> you are okay we are going to need and crippled with a boston accent so pronunciation is like wicked hard for me i just heard you say, so i've been saying ultra all day and it is hard to say ultra or something. >> it comes out also sometimes some people say it. as long as people know you're not talking about like light beer, it's fine.