of the players, and that it represents not only themselves, kareem know george barr, what a pleasure to have you. thank you so much. >> great talking with you. >> be well. that is all in, therachelmaddowshowstarts now. good evening. >> thank you. i was fascinated by that conversation. i have been following the cultural, and sports impact, on what is happening to russia very closely. you probably know i'm a huge soccer fan this year. uefa has already struck the champions league from st. petersburg,, which obviously, is leonard putin's birthplace. it's a big stinger for him. >> how much of the soccer, particularly, which is a point of such obsession, and skirt across the world on so many cultures. it brings people together. the russian people being told, you are kicked out of these bodies, it lands like something is going on, maybe more than what they are told through state media. >> definitely, that person it bothered someone like vladimir putin who, relishes being on
the world stage. chris, thank you so much, good to see you. thank you at-home for joining us at this hour. thlots to get, too busy night, but i want to start tonight overseas, but in the city of prague. that is the capital of the czech republic. i want you to take in both the size, and the sound of this crowd, in prague, tonight. [noise] >> this absolutely massive crowd. this crowd of tens of thousands. gathering in prague, tonight, to watch a speech. not by their leader, but by ukraine's president, volodymyr zelenskyy. ukraine presidents address was
to multiple european cities, and as i mentioned, this was prague. this was the capital of the nation of georgia. of course, russia's invasion of ukraine reminds all of us, and strikes and particularly on nerves and georgia, which had its own experience with a russian invasion in 2008. so, thousands of georgians, tonight, turning out this evening, in support of ukraine. the speech was also broadcast to a crowd in frankfurt germany, were germans waved ukrainian flags, and cheered zelenskyy on. in the capital of lithuania, people gathered in front of the russian embassy, to declare their support for ukraine, and this president. i want to play with you a bit of a president zelenskyy had to say, not just to the people who are watching this around the world, but to the crowds who gathered to hear him speak across europe. >> to the people of europe. we call upon you to not be
silent. i would like you to come out onto the streets, and support ukraine. we need to support our efforts, and support our fight. if ukraine will not stand, europe will not stand. >> he continued by saying, if we will fall, you will fall. ukrainian president zelenskyy, speaking from an undisclosed location and keith tonight, in a separate speech, and angry zelenskyy, blasted nato for not instituting a no fly zone over his country. >> speaking today, and brussels, u.s. secretary of state, anthony blinken, acknowledging that the suffering in ukraine is likely to get a lot worse, before it gets better. once again, batting down the idea of a nato imposed no fly
zone. >> the only way to, actually, implement something like a no fly zone, is to send nato planes, into ukrainian airspace, and a shoot down russian planes. that could lead to a full fledged war. and europe, president biden has been clear. they are not going to get into a war with russia. >> as the warned ukraine and russia enters its second week, the stakes keep getting higher, and higher. we saw yesterday, the ukrainian nuclear power plant that was shelled by russia, while we were on the, air last night. the largest nuclear plant, in europe, has now been fully taken over by russian forces. the fire caused by the shelling was put out. the international atomic energy agency says it normal patients at the plant are continuing, and no security, or safety systems, are compromised. the head of the company that runs the plants, is that the station management is now working at gunpoint. effectively, as hostages.
u.s. ambassador to the united nations, linda thomas-greenfield, speaking about the dangers of a nuclear situation today. watch. >> by the grace of god, the world, narrowly, averted to a nuclear catastrophe last night. it was incredibly reckless, and dangerous. it threatened the safety of civilians across russia, ukraine, and europe. the united states remains highly concerned that russian military forces, controlling the chernobyl site, have not permitted operators there to have a shift change, since last week. this is highly irresponsible behavior, and causes grave concerns for continued, safe, operation, both sides. mr. putin stopped this madness. and he must stop it now. russian forces, now, are 20 miles, and closing, from
ukraine's second largest nuclear facility. so, this imminent danger continues. >> as russian forces there, we are seeing, capture more territory, particularly in the south of ukraine. there is growing concern about where this goes. after taking the port of kherson, russian forces appear to try to consolidate control of the cities that are on the black sea. currently, they are advancing on the town of nikolai of, and ukrainian authorities are warning of a planned amphibious assault, on the major city of odessa. to the east, closer to the russian border, mary a poll, surrounded, and under heavy shelling, with the mayor of the city saying electricity has been cut off. meanwhile, in areas around the capital of kyiv, they are increasingly being hard hit. this is the destruction caused by russian air raid on a village, just 37 miles southwest of kyiv. it is apocalyptic. it is the aftermath of an attack 80 miles northwest of
the capital. even as a miles-long convoy of russian forces remain stalled, north of kyiv. the fighting, and the destruction is inching closer to the capital, minute by minute. joining more from western ukraine, its ukrainian member of parliament, marianne sublot ski. mr. sublot ski, thank you for being with us this evening. given the circumstances that you're under, and they are making their way to kyiv. if you make the most of what will happen in the coming days. >> what is concerning me is the fate of civilians, as those tens of thousands of people, still, in kyiv. russians will choose indiscriminate fire towards the city, instead of advances on the ground. so, we can see that the morale of russian soldiers is quite low, and the monthly salary is just $500 per month. most of them, when we capture them, they tell us that they
are just training exercises, and then suddenly, they were told to attack ukraine. many did not understand why, while our soldiers have strong, high morale, their families to protect, and that is why we've captured russian soldiers en masse. >> i know we've seen people evacuating kyiv. can you describe for us what the situation is like for me humanitarian perspective, right now, in the city of kyiv? i know people are making their way out. has there been stepped up efforts to get people out of cities like kyiv, and elsewhere, that are sustaining heavy shelling. what is happening to those staying behind? >> kyiv is one of the biggest cities in europe, and is one of the locations to put 8 million. most of the city's evacuated, but there are many of people trapped, especially in places where russian forces, very quickly, and where there are
airborne divisions. when we look at that, it will definitely continue to work but, then you also have to point out, it will happen around the world. ukraine is one of the world leading grain exporters. you will see food prices spiking all around the world. >> i want to ask you about what is happening with nato today. your president, president zelenskyy, gave a very impassioned speech. he's been quite clear. he is calling for nato to impose a no fly zone and tonight who's very critical of putin not imposing a no-fly zone putin said that would escalate the conflict, and as we hear from american military officials, it could bring american, and european military, into direct confrontation with russian aircraft, in the skies above your country. can i get your reaction to this response? both to the call out former president, and the response from nato, that it will not
participate in a no fly zone. >> this is the moment in history like, it was in 1938 in czechoslovakia, and poland. it will get out. we think the putin is lost his mind, and he will definitely try to attack one of the nato countries in the future. and there is a high responsive state sponsored terra firma. regrettably, one way or another, there will be a direct military confrontation with russia at some point, because putin is just completely lost his mind. he's completely irrational. we can do better quickly now, and to stop him. that is the language that is fully understood. >> your assessment is, you think the conflict up in ukraine, this evening, will, in fact, to widen beyond your country, to engulf the united states, and europe? >> almost certainly. putin is already laying
territorial claim to baltic states. he has shown that, just today, and so that he will help belarus with their projects in the baltics sea. belarus has no access to the baltics sea, so we fear he will try to attack other countries with the future, to be these. >> let me ask you about last night's developments with the nuclear plants. to have any updates on that? do you know what is currently going on inside of the plant with the workers there, who are, reportedly, working under russian control of the plant? >> it's dangerous, the risk of nuclear accident, a major nuclear accident, that could poison the whole world. it's quite high. russia could send their most brutal, and lease educated church and fighters to this nuclear plant. our workers or continue to function at gunpoint. of course, those fighters that russia sent are not nuclear
scientists. accidents do happen, even in nuclear scientists hands in terms of these types, it's extremely dangerous. with this management, you can actually see that they're facing a major accident. >> given the situation, it is so difficult to get independent formation from out there to know who was there, and what they were doing inside the plant. ukrainian member of parliament, miranda plonsky, thank you so much, we appreciate your time. please be safe. we have been watching this conflict from the start, thanks to the work of brave journalists on the ground, all over ukraine. the there've saying there, in the key days after russia launched its invasion. the video journalist whose work you just saw there, whitney leaning, from the washington post. she has been traveling south, three ukraine, from kharkiv to
newark to notice the folds. tonight, she joins us from the port city of odessa in ukraine, where people spent today filling of sandbags and gather supplies. it was described as an imminent assault on russian forces. honestly, thank you for being here, i notice later time, thank you for staying up. i know people in odessa are hunkering down before this invasion. he describe for us what you have seen and what you have heard tonight. >> sure, thank you for having me. we arrived to notice, early afternoon, local time. this is the third largest city in ukraine. and yet, the streets are not, exactly, deserted. but, there are very few people out, and about. most people are working to fortify the city. and then prepare, for what could be an assault coming from
three sides. >> i understand, you have been having some blackouts tonight. any idea what's causing the? is it an indication of something that maybe getting under the way, and there? >> we are not having power blackouts. i think the confusion is that the cities under blackouts, they are locking down with light coming from the outside, making it difficult to see the city center, and where people are throughout the city. so, we are under restrictions. >> i appreciate you clarifying that. it was a major concern for city officials there. let's talk about paper for the moment. the washington post is preparing is unverified reports that a large fleet of russian warships was heading towards the waters off of the coast. could you just expand a little more on what you are saying? have you heard with people that are speak on the ground and
what is that is based on? >> there have been reports of ships off of the coast, and we haven't seen movement, or heard of movement, from official sources over the past two days. so, we are unsure what, exactly, is going on. but, assaults like these, are quite difficult, and take time. that time is allowing the city to prepare, and we're being told that the peaches are, completely, mind. you can see when you come into the city, hedgehogs, made to slow down, or stop tanks, and other types of vehicles, all around the city. basically, just trying to help slow down any forces, while the citizens prepare. >> i understand, before you arrived in odessa, you were in the eastern cities of knee pro, and human. what were you saying is you moved westward? could you describe for us that journey? are there are checkpoints on
the highways? was there bombardment? did you see a sea of people trying to escape smaller towns, and perhaps villages, on your roof? >> absolutely. so, we made the trip and in one day, it should've been a six hour car drive. but it took over 12. you are seeing extremely long lines, of evacuees. many of these people have homemade signs, posted on their car, that's a children on them. trying to let officials know that there are kids in the car. there are many checkpoints you have to go through. some of these, controlled by the military. and city, and town police. others, controlled by volunteer militia, who don't have plenty of training, and our, justifiably, very jumpy. so people are doing whatever they can to protect themselves. some of these checkpoints take
hours, and hours to get through. we made it into a mont, actually, after curfew, because of being stuck for hours in long lines at covid checkpoints. also, you will see huge caravans of families, heading west. you will see cars coming back out east, and almost all of those cars, filled with, what looks to be, single men. our assumption, and from the few people we talk to, is that people are driving their families towards safety, and then returning home, to protect their neighborhoods. >> absolutely incredible reporting, and incredible images. washington post video journalist, whitney, in odessa for us, this evening. whitney, thank you for your time, please stay safe, do you, and all of your colleagues. thank you. we have a lot more ahead tonight on a day when the russian government tries to shut down and the press that does not to the government and
what to do so, we talk with a russian general who refuses to stop reporting. take a listen. n. o sofi and feel what it's like to get your money right. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ move your student loan debt to sofi—you could save with low rates and no fees. go to sofi.com to view your rate today. ♪ ♪ as a struggling actor, go to sofi.com to view your rate today. i need all the breaks that i can get. at liberty butchumal- cut. liberty biberty- cut. we'll dub it. liberty mutual customizes your car insurance so you only pay for what you need. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪
♪ it's the most wonderful time of the year ♪ get fast relief of your worst allergy symptoms, including nasal congestion, with powerful claritin d, so you can breathe better. feel the clarity and make today the most wonderful time of the year.
claritin d.
i know there's conflicting information about dupuytren's contracture. i thought i couldn't get treatment yet? well, people may think that their contracture has to be severe to be treated, but it doesn't. if you can't lay your hand flat on the table, talk to a hand specialist. but what if i don't want surgery? well, then you should find a hand specialist certified to offer nonsurgical treatments. what's the next step? >> this is a 3500 ton frigate. visit findahandspecialist.com today to get started.
that was the flagship vessel of ukraine's relatively small navy, until it was sunk not by russian forces actually but by ukraine itself. the ship had been docked for repairs in the ports city of mike lee off and on the black sea coast when the war broke out last week. and the captain of the ship actually feared that those repairs would not be finished in time to prevent the crown jewel of ukraine's navy from falling into russian hands. he did not want to take that risk. so he basically carried out orders to sink the ship. ukraine's defense minister described the captains predicting it this way, saying, it is hard to imagine a more difficult decision for a courageous man and his crew, but we will build a new fleet. russian forces are waging as we
heard an all out assault across the southern region of ukraine, which is the only region of ukraine that actually has access to the sea. here some the first ukrainian city to be captured by russian forces is quickly running out of medical supplies. mario poll also in the southern part of the country has been under siege cut off from access to the water, power, food supplies. now it's going on for days. in the southern city of odessa where we just got that live report, the population there is actually getting ready to mount a defensive of their city after unverified reports suggesting a fleet of washington warships heading into their direction. that is the situation right now in southern ukraine. but the assault by putin's army in the northern part of the country while horrifying in its own right, is actually moving much much lower. a 40-mile convoy of russian troops remain stalled outside the capital city of kyiv. and despite the hellish shelling that the capitol in kharkiv that we have seen night after night, some u.s.
officials are actually reportedly surprised by the risk averse or protests that russia has taken with its vast air power against ukraine's much mueller air force i. as one retired three star general told void or's, the russians are discovering that coordinating multi domain operations is not easy, and that they are not as good as they presume they were. what should we expect to see in the coming days is putin continues his siege against the people of ukraine. joining us now for more on that probably, former marine corps -- and senior fellow at the foreign policy research institute. rob, it's good to see you again. thanks for joining us. let's assess this. what do you think it is that russian forces they are doing better in the south it seems and they are in the north. i'm curious to get your thoughts on why that might be. and is that a sign of russia and if it's an's case of facilities in the south? or a sign of better ukrainian forces and posture in the north? i >> well thanks for having me. i think it's a combination of
things. but i think one of them is that ukrainian forces decided -- what whatever is to they have to defend and what areas can they trade time for space. and so i think that's with the doing in the south. you get a very good briefing of what's going on. ultimately, they're continuing to advance towards the south -- they took the saudi of arab hoeven yesterday. where the nuclear plant is, pushing towards areva. -- moralistic surrounded in the southeast. but as we've seen in the last few days, have the big cities in the northeast have not fallen. so kharkiv, sumy, toonie gulf, and obviously cave. ukrainian forces are still holding those. -- it's difficult for ukraine's military to fight a conditional fight with russian military. -- it negates a lot of the strength for russian military and i think that's what they're best reggie's. >> do you have a sense of how at this current moment the ukrainian military is managing its supply lines?
i mean, what happens to ukraine's military if russia does manage to cut off their access to the sea? we know that the u.s. and western countries are trying to resupply various ukrainian positions. do we know if that's happening by airlift, landrieu, to i.c.e.? >> so, i'm not sure. and one thing that's going to -- there's much more information on what's russia's doing that there is with ukraine military. and there's a variety of reasons for that. as long as the western border of ukraine is open to these nato members, ball hopefully nato can continue to supply. it even if the naval access is cut off, that land border will still be very significant. and ultimately russian -- there's no easy way to cut them off in the time being in that the land -- in addition, ukrainians air defenses are still capable. their air force is still operating. and so russia -- in western ukraine because it interdict nato's floodlights. >> that brings up a really interesting questioning about the airspace of ukraine. -- in syria, i think it tip the
balance in that fight between the syrians and the opposition. but ukraine's airspace, as you said, remains contested. and i think it has a lot of people scratching their heads. why do you think we are not seeing even more aggression from russia's much larger and presumably at one point a pretty sophisticated air force? >> so, it's still very surprising. i think at this point we, have to kind of look at the capabilities of the russian air force and start questioning whether or not they're capable of doing certain operations. that the u.s. air force is capable of. -- their ability to suppress -- has struggled to do so, they struggle to knock out the ukrainian force. the ukrainian air force continues to wreck havoc on their supply lines including -- and so, it appears that russian air forces -- and i think one of the important things, in previous conflicts in 2014, 2015 -- mostly because of --
it in syria, it has played a key role but they haven't gone against a capable air to forest fence and some. and so it's basically been operating with relative impunity -- and then just working on target processes. but right now this operation is much much more complex. it's much larger. any of much larger russian ground forces on the ground that need aerial support. and so all those factors are making it more difficult for russian air force is to be as effective as i'd hoped they would be. and that's really surprising -- >> absolutely fascinating. rob lee, former marine corps officer and senior fellow at the foreign policy research institute. greatly appreciate your time today sir. thank you. >> vladimir putin has been winning at least one battle so far in this war and it is a battle against his own people. one of the journalists who are trying to continue reporting the truth no matter what the russian government says, is going to join us live next. i going to join us live next going to join us live next ! you all deserve something epic! so we're giving every business, our best deals on every iphone - including the iphone 13 pro with 5g. that's the one with the amazing camera?
yep! every business deserves it... like one's that re-opened! hi, we have an appointment. and every new business that just opened! like aromatherapy rugs! i'll take one in blue please! it's not complicated. at&t is giving new and existing business customers our best deals on every iphone. ♪ ♪ ♪♪ energy is everywhere... even in a little seedling. which, when turned into fuel, can help power a plane. at chevron's el segundo refinery, we're looking to turn plant-based oil into renewable gasoline, jet and diesel fuels. our planet offers countless sources of energy. but it's only human to find the ones that could power a better future. and it's easy to get a quote at libertymutual.com so you only pay for what you need. isn't that right limu? limu? sorry, one sec. doug blows a whistle. [a vulture squawks.]
oh boy. only pay for what you need. ♪liberty, liberty, liberty, liberty♪ (man 1) oh, this looks like we're in a screen saver. only pay for what you need. (man 2) yeah, but we need to go higher. (man 1) higher. (man 2) definitely higher. (man 1) we're like yodeling high. [yodeling] yo-de-le-he... (man 2) hey, no. uh-uh, don't do that. (man 1) we should go even higher! (man 2) yeah, let's do it. (both) woah! (man 2) i'm good. (man 1) me, too. (man 2) mm-hm. (vo) adventure has a new look. (man 1) let's go lower. (man 2) lower, that sounds good. (vo) discover more in the all-new subaru outback wilderness. love. it's what makes subaru, subaru. inner voice (kombucha brewer): as a new small business owner, i find it useful to dramatically stare out of the window... ...so that no one knows i'm secretly terrified inside. inner voice (sneaker shop owner): i'm using hand gestures and pointing... ...so no one can tell i'm unsure about my business finances. inner voice (furniture maker): i'm constantly nodding... ...because i know everything about furniture... ...but with the business side... ...i'm feeling a little lost. quickbooks can help. an easy way to get paid,
pay your staff and know where your business stands. new business? no problem. yeah. success starts with intuit quickbooks. this is alexandra.

25 years old, living in kharkiv ukraine. today, she spoke to the bbc about her mother. her mother lives in moscow, russia, and she was telling the bbc, her own mother did not believe her, when she said her city, in kharkiv ukraine, was being shelled by russian forces. she said, i didn't want to scare my parents, but i started to tell, them directly, that civilians and children are dying. and her parents, to her
surprise, responded by saying, the russian army would never targets of aliens. that it is ukrainians, killing their own people. to her shock, alexandra says her mother just repeated the narrative of what she heard on russian state tv. russian state media, of course, has sought to obscure the reality of what is happening in ukraine. there are no reports of missiles hitting residential district, snow coverage of russian casualties, but the ongoing protests taking place inside of russia. in fact, yesterday, the last independent radio station, echo moscow, was shut down. the last independent ev station, tv rain, broadcasters final news. this warning, russian block sites like radio free europe, voice of america, and of course, the bbc. all while the russian bbc language, new site alone, reaching 10.5 million people alone. more than triple its usual average. today, they went even further,
blocking access to both facebook, and twitter. the russian dumas, the parliament, made it illegal, and punishable, by 15 years in prison to report anything that the russian government teams to be false information about the war in ukraine. oh, by the way, russia does not call it a war, and neither can the reporters there. they are calling it a special military operation. so, all of the news that you see coming out of russia has to come from the government itself. the bbc, announcing today, this law left them no other option, then to temporarily suspend the work of bbc news journalists, and their support staff, within the russian federation. other outlets, starting to follow suit. so, while we have had footage toshowof some of the more than 8000 anti war protesters that have been arrested in russia. that kind of reporting, that kind of journalism, just became a lot more risky. in fact, it is now punishable. this crackdown comes as imprisoned russian opposition leader, alexei navalny, calls
for more mass protests, inside of russia, and around the world, discussing sunday. today, four major russian independent news outlets, including the newspaper whose editor just won the nobel peace prize, last year, decided that this new law, actually, made it impossible for them to report on the war, truthfully, without their reporters being thrown in prison. so, now, they are reporting on it at all. the independent new site, medusa, blocked by the russian government today. that medusa has always reported on russia, in russian, but they have done it from latvia, outside of russia's borders, to stay as independent as possible. so, even though they were blocked inside of russia, they have not stopped reporting. joining us now, from not via, the investigations editor at medusa. thank you so much for being with us. i appreciate your time.
let's start with the development today. now that the russian government has blocked her website in russia, how do you expect, and plan, on getting your news, your information, your reporting, accessible to people inside of russia? >> morning, thank you for having me. we have been waiting for this. we have been anticipating this for quite some time. so, we have been educating our audience, and our followers, to use a different means of circumventing these bands. over the past few years, russians have become quite adept at using vpn's, and proxies. more and more, huge swaths of russians, are becoming accessible to russians for carpet bands, of sorts. so, we had some contingency plans, and we are continuing to broadcast on our app, telegram channel, and hopefully, we can recover some of our website
audience as well. as more and more people adopt vpn's, proxies, and all kinds of anti blockage devices. >> incredible defiance. i'm curious to get your thoughts on what will this media crack, and that we have seen, intensify, on independent media, inside to mean for the war in ukraine? do you think that it will have any impact to it to russia will have on the information flow? >> it is crucial, the russian public understands what's going on. this was the motivation behind such an unprecedented assault in the country. i don't think any president in russia's history, even in the soviet times, the is, as you said it earlier, i thought that the bbc report, this is real, and happening and many russian families, to. like many russian families, mine has relatives in ukraine. different parts of my family,
my wife's family, where we all have ukrainian relatives. that is happening all across the spectrum, that ukrainian relatives are saying, look, your army is bombing our cities. the russian relatives are saying, that's not true. they told us, on the television, that the russian army is not bombing any civilian infrastructure. it is only striking military targets. that's it, it's just so hard to convince people. it is hard enough that to make a simple mistake, but you are actually asking them to admit complicity and war crimes. the it is the television, which is on for most of the time in most russian households, has told them, nonstop, this is not happening. it couldn't be happening. it's hard to challenge that narrative. but that is what we are doing. >> i'm curious to see if you could talk about how the european media is covering
this. in working with covering it, this is a conflict that has implicated all of europe. i was speaking to a member of the german media earlier, who said this is a much more emotional components to it and then what european media has been used to before. have you noticed a shift, or change, in the way european media outlets have covered this particular war? >> to be honest, i'm not spending much time watching western coverage. we are to a merged in our own, right now. we have people on the ground, collecting information from ukrainians. we are trying to get information from firsthand sources. so, i probably couldn't tell you exactly with they differ. so, this time, and with previous conflicts. this is a solid coverage, and
is doing the best they can. >> go back to the point they were talking about, for some of the stories, or anecdotes, you are hearing from russian family members being told about inside of ukraine, and ukrainian family members. how do you de-program the trunk of the russian population that, fully, believes that state tv tells them? how can we, and your news organization, combat that level of misinformation? >> this looks like an insurmountable problem. these, is simply, in a coma of scale. dozens of millions of people are tuned into russian tv. it was access to independent media, like our, switch doesn't mean that we aren't ceasing to do our jobs.
but, if not for now, it is for the historical record that. it is basically documenting my countries warcrimes, for any future international trade fellows. we are doing as much as we can to convince people, to educate on what is going on now. we have made some progress, and we are now sharing links to, and other remaining, independent news media websites in russia. lake secret pamphlets, because what we have now, it's as close as we get to martial law, with the old civil liberties, and free press suspended. >> the information space on russia continue to shrink by the day. alexei thank you so much to you, and your entire staff. you are in the investigations editor at the russian language news site. greatly appreciate the work you are all doing. thank you for your time tonight. this past week,rachel, and our
team here, have been periodically checking in on a man named alexander. he has been sheltered in kyiv after, unsuccessfully, trying to leave the city. up next, he joins us live from kyiv, tonight. stay with us. stay with us


my auntie called me. she said uncle's had a heart attack.
i needed him to be here. your heart isn't just yours. protect it with bayer aspirin. be sure to talk to your doctor it is not the first day we before you begin an aspirin regimen. tried. look at this crowd. you will never get on, you can see it clearly. one key resident, out of thousands, trying to catch a train out of kyiv today, after a series of explosions rocked the capital. this is what it looked like, today, as vast crowds of residents swarmed the main train station, hoping to head west, and out of the country. knowing that russian troops, our only miles outside of their city. women, children, kids, the elderly, lining up on platforms, pushing their way onto trains, that do not have any room for anyone, or everyone. people were saying tearful goodbyes to loved ones, who managed to find a spot, and that is what it was like in
kyiv today. panic. panic, and the impulse to move west, immediately, out of harm's way. while some make it out, and many others have had to stay put. we first spoke to one kyiv resident, named alexander brokering, cold last friday. then we checked in on him, again, on monday. he is a restaurant owner in the city, and alexander, and his family, want to totally four days. they have been unable to do so. they were unable to get enough gas to drive the distance, and the train stations are no longer guaranteed to take them. so, he, his family, and neighbors, have hunkered down in kyiv, like many others. alexander told us, she managed to pick up some weapons that the ukrainian government have been offering to citizens, and he, and his neighbors, have been teaching themselves how to use them. he told us, they have been using food from his restaurant to supply meals for children, hospitals, and to help the ukrainian army. but, things, as you can imagine, in the second week as it gets started, are getting more dire
by the day. on monday, alexander told us, quote, this is our land, we don't want to run away, because this is where we belong to. this is our homeland. this is ukraine. this is kyiv. there is a shelter of the underground neighbors, and they've been traveling by foot, and carved throughout kyiv, through to find basic stables like diapers, and food, for the family. joining us tonight kyiv resident, and restaurant owner, alexander. alexander, thank you so much, we are grateful for your time. says it is what they're investigating with this, and it is early morning in kyiv right now. how was it in kyiv right now? where was it with the mood you are? >> hello. basically, the mood is the same. it's a ninth day since the war started. 's in is otherwise silent in
kyiv. but, according to the news, for example, we woke up yesterday, and have heard that the nuclear plant of the russian army, and was overtaken by the russian army. i have seen stories on instagram of people to live there, and if it was so afraid of a nuclear explosion, it is not a problem of ukraine, it's a problem for the whole world. yesterday, i was traveling around the city, volunteering, helping out with, and it will be taking people to the central station, and it's the only way out in the city. as well as volunteering. but, the city looks like a ghost city. >> i can't imagine what you're
going through right now, with the millions of people there. on monday, you said, at that point, you did not want to leave kyiv. do you still feel that way, waking up today? have you changed your mind about your family, and trying to get them out? >> not at all. i think that the army needs us. the people need us. its total support, our president never left. every time, his last message was, i am here, i am with you, and we should not be afraid. i would say, we shouldn't be afraid, because this is the only way for to leave now. it is your choice. you either live, there or stay here, and support by every mean you can. i can support with volunteering. for example yesterday, i believe we had 15 points of
what to do for the day, and the morning. i had to pick up some women with children, i had to get them to the buses, then i had to pick up a woman from the hospital after her surgery, and then also take her to her house, and to her family. then, i need to get food and, then bring it to the army post. so, basically, i'm just doing what i can. as i've said before, this is our land, this is ukraine, and i still don't want to leave. i want to be here, with my people, with my family, with everybody. >> it's incredible resilience, and defiance on your part. certainly inspiring. i know the last time you were on theshow, you toldrachel, you are worried about access to basic supplies the food, water, vicissitudes for your children. have things worsened, or improved in that regard, since you told us that? >> in that time, i have never been to a supermarket.
i have friends from the restaurant business, and we do, really, really, support by making some dinners for the army. this is where we get food, basically. but still, it is a mess. people are standing in long queues in the supermarkets they basically, we are running out of medicine, out of drugs, and the food supply is getting low. >> alexander, kyiv resident, and restaurant owner, thank you so much for your time, as i said at the top of the segment. i pray for you, and your safety, and that of your family. thank you for joining us, we appreciate it. >> thank you very much, thank you. >> still ahead, russian oligarchs are trying to out-run sanctions on their multi million dollar super yachts. at least two, caught so far. we will tell you about a heroic
act of sabotage, next. t of sabotage, next. i honestly feel that that's my calling-- to give back to younger people. i think most adults will start realizing that they don't recall things as quickly as they used to or they don't remember things as vividly as they once did. i've been taking prevagen for about three years now. people say to me periodically, "man, you've got a memory like an elephant." it's really, really helped me tremendously. prevagen. healthier brain. better life. with my hectic life you'd think retirement would be the last thing on my mind. thankfully, voya provides comprehensive solutions and shows me how to get the most out of my workplace benefits. voya helps me feel like i've got it all under control. voya. well planned. well invested. well protected. need to get your prescriptions refilled?
capsule pharmacy can hand deliver your medications - today - for free. go to capsule.com. we handle your insurance. all you have to do is schedule delivery. go to capsule.com to get started in 15 seconds today. trelegy for copd. ♪ birds flyin' high ♪ ♪ you know how i feel ♪ (coughing) ♪ breeze driftin' on by ♪ ♪ you know how i feel ♪ copd may have gotten you here, but you decide what's next. start a new day with trelegy. ♪ ...feelin' good ♪ no once-daily copd medicine has the power to treat copd in as many ways as trelegy. with three medicines in one inhaler, trelegy helps people breathe easier and improves lung function. it also helps prevent future flare-ups. trelegy won't replace a rescue inhaler for sudden breathing problems. tell your doctor if you have a heart condition or high blood pressure before taking it. do not take trelegy more than prescribed. trelegy may increase your risk of thrush, pneumonia, and osteoporosis.
call your doctor if worsened breathing, chest pain, mouth or tongue swelling, problems urinating, vision changes, or eye pain occur. take a stand and start a new day with trelegy. ask your doctor about once-daily trelegy. and save at trelegy.com. we got the house! ask your doctor about once-daily trelegy. you did! pods handles the driving. pack at your pace. store your things until you're ready. then we deliver to your new home - across town or across the country. pods, your personal moving and storage team. at xfinity, we live and work
in the same neighborhood as you. we're always working to keep you connected to what you love. and now, we're working to bring you the next generation of wifi. it's ultra-fast. faster than a gig. supersonic wifi. only from xfinity. it can power hundreds of devices with three times the bandwidth. so your growing wifi needs will be met. supersonic wifi only from us... xfinity. how not to be a hero: because that's the last thing they need you to be. you don't have to save the day. you just have to navigate the world so that a foster child isn't doing it solo. you just have to stand up for a kid who isn't fluent in bureaucracy, or maybe not in their own emotions. soshowup, however you can, >> all right, her name is lady for the foster kids who need it most— at helpfosterchildren.com
anastasia. she's a 7 million dollar super wide open -- in the chief executive of russian state -- that exports weapon. and right now, that yacht is docked on the island of mallorca in the mediterranean. and a lot a yacht like this i should know needs a lot of care, a lot of maintenance. they usually have a full-time staff. and in the case of lady
anastasia, a mechanic is this guy. 55-year-old engineer from the ukraine named terrazas of chuck. over the weekend, that mechanic says that he saw a physio of a rocket attack on this residential building in kyiv where he is from. and he says that when he was watching that video something clicked, something changed, and he remember that his boss is not only russian but is in fact that he is a russian arms dealer. the mechanic says he believes the missile he saw in that video was the same type of missile manufactured and sold by his boss. so the mechanic allegedly marched onto the engine room of the super yacht and opened up several valves that were supposed to stay shut which partially sank the lady anastasia. and that ukrainian mechanic was arrested, brought to court in mallorca, for allegedly trying to sink the russian man shot. he told a judge quote, they were attacking innocence and i don't regret anything i've done and i would do it again. that mechanic has since been
released from custody and he tells us he is now back in ukraine. he is on a waitlist to be issued a weapon so he can join the fight himself. the mechanic felt left custody for ukraine, left spain, got there are so he could help defend his country. that's him in this photo alongside his compatriots. an act of heroic sabotage. that does it for us tonight i will see you again tomorrow night at 88 eastern on myshow. now it's time for the last word with lawrence o'donnell. good evening lawrence. >> good evening a minute and in just a few minutes you delivered the single best episode of below deck ever. and i read that story a few days ago when he was first arrested and it's my favorite of the yacht stories. we're gonna do a bunch of yacht stories at the end of the hour with a maritime law expert telling us what happens next with these yachts. but one of the peculiar things about this particular yacht is