to be living in right now, this is me as a non-scientist, i'm sure i only get about 10% of it. this is somewhere between the cuban missile crisis and the initial bombing of london. and we're at, like, don't use aerosol cans because of the hole in the ozone, or y2k. and if you know this in the movie, we take shots at hollywood. which includes me. we take shots at everyone. across the board. we're failing in a tremendous way to convey these truths. and it may simply be a matter of our format is wrong. we may need to do three times longer segments before commercial breaks, or movies may
need to be four times longer. i don't know. >> right. >> but, yeah, the gulf between the reality and how we're perceiving is massive, and very disturbing. >> adam mckay, it's a great movie, you should check it out. thank you so much. >> thank you, chris. always a pleasure. >> that is "all in," the "therachelmaddowshow" starts right now. good evening,rachel. >> thank you, chris.   thanks for joining us on this hour. we have a lot to talk about. after president biden's big voting rights speech in georgia, and all the fallout from that. we'll talk to a senator who was there at the speech, and has a bit of an inside track on whether or not the senate is going to deliver on what vice president harris and president biden called for today. this is a senator who has been with the president all day. she's going to be joining us live in just a few minutes, after she touches back down in
d.c. on the air force one flight back from georgia. very much looking forward to that conversation. we're also going to be speaking with one of the leading voting rights activists in the country, someone who has given president biden a really hard time on this issue. who has been really confrontational with president biden and the biden administration on this issue. he's been pretty relentless in saying president biden needed to d more, say more, go further to protect voting rights. this activist told us today that he thinks president biden in atlanta today hit it out of the park. that this is exactly what he was hoping to hear. so we'll hear from him in a few minutes tonight as well. he's got a really interesting perspective on this stuff. we're going to get to all of that. briefly, though, before we get to all that, i want to tell you about a new interesting development in the story we've been chasing for a little bit, a little while now.
it suddenly seems like we're starting to get somewhere with this. and i want to give you an update. we first talked about this on the air last month, just before christmas, when we obtained this document from wisconsin. it's a forged document, purporting to be the official slate of electors in wisconsin, but it's not. in wisconsin, joe biden defeated donald trump, so they chose democratic party electors to cast votes in the electoral college. but last month, we reported on this document that was created by republicans in wisconsin after the election. they sent it in to congress, to the national archives. they tried to pass it off as an official document, as if they were the real electors, and they were casting wisconsin's electoral votes, and they were casting them for trump and pence. so we talked about that forged
document from wisconsin on theshowlast month. we did that in the context of this ongoing open question in wisconsin as to whether or not anybody will get in trouble for that. whether or not the state election board or state prosecutors will pursue the signers of that fake document, potentially on forgery charges. so that is sort of where this story started for us. and, boy, did we hear from you, the viewers, on this story. we got a lot of feedback, a lot of people expressing concerns about how serious this seemed to be. and, you know, it's a big story. you know? wisconsin republicans taking the whole election denial thing one step beyond. actually sending the national archives and congress a forged document, it's a fascinating story. and i understand why a lot of our viewers were disturbed and
contacted us about it. that was where we were last month. then last night, thanks to reporting from politico.com, nicholas wu, we were able toshowyou additional forgeries from additional states. turns out, it was not just wisconsin. republicans in michigan and republicans in arizona also created forged documents after the election where they tried to pass themselves off as the real electors for those states. when in fact they were not the real electors for those states. and again, they didn't just prepare these documents for, you know, home scrapbooking, how i wish the election had gone. right? they actually prepared these documents, made them look as official as possible. cited u.s. law, proclaimed themselves officially to be the legal representatives of the state. and they sent these things in to the government to be counted. pretty astonishing thing. we first got the forged
documents from wisconsin last month. and last night, we showed you similar forgeries from michigan and from arizona as well. now, if you watched last night'sshow, do you remember how i said, when i was talking about this story, raise your hand if you think there will be more of these? yeah, that didn't take long. turns out there's more. and let meshowyou this at the outset. this is what the real one looks like. this is what the real document is supposed to look like. when a state finalizes and certifies its election results, they know which candidate won the state, that tells you which electors will cast that state's vote in the electoral college. if trump won, it will be trump electors, if biden won, it will be biden electors. this is a real process. here's what it looks like for real. this is michigan, for example. all the states do it a little
differently, but the basic point is to convey all the same official information. here's the real one from the state of michigan, it kind of looks like a diploma. let's do the real elector certificate from arizona. looks like a medical degree. not all of them are fancy like this. this one from georgia is all business, just the facts. or wisconsin. it's cold this time of year, just get to the point. most states are somewhere in the middle, somewhere between a diploma and a gas station receipt. this one is from nevada. fairly typical. every state does it different, but they're all year. the basic information is the same. we the undersigned, being the
qualified electors for the state of "x," and then the votes are cast, they have the signatures of the qualified electors. that's what the real ones look like. can we put those on the screen together? i think we have them from a bunch of different states. there's the five i just mentioned. as you can see, it's the same basic information on all of them. all these documents serve the same purpose, they meet the constitutional threshold they need to. but they all look a little different. they convey the information visually a little differently. depending on how the state felt on this topic, what kind of nice stationery they had. and i picked these five because thanks to the watchdog group
american oversight, in all five of these states, republicans also prepared forged, faked documents sent to the government, proclaiming that these other electors were the real electors from these states, casting electoral votes not for biden, but for trump. tell me if you notice something. these are the documents from georgia. in georgia, that's the real electoral vote document on the left, that's the forgery on the right. in nevada, that's the real one on the left, and the fake one on the right. here also is wisconsin, where we reported on their forgery last month. here's michigan, the real one on the left, and the forgery on the right. and lastly, here's arizona. the real electoral vote document on the left, and the fake one on the right. wasn't one state.
wasn't three states where they did this. at least five states where we've now obtained forged documents created by republicans. and it's not like they, again, created these documents to, like, hold close to their chest and fantasize that this had been the real outcome. it's not like they created these documents just to keep as a keepsake. they sent them in to the government as if they were real documents. and it's not like, hey, we know they're not the real electors, because biden won, but here's our names for posterity and your records. they created these fake documents purporting to be the real certifications of them as electors. here it is in the forged document from georgia. we, the undersigned, being the
duly elected and qualiied electors do certify -- you are not the duly elected and qualified electors. but when i put those five up there, you may have noticed, all the real certificates, they're all unique, with their own quirks, fancy or not fancy paper. decorations and seals. contrast that with the forged republican documents. look at them. they all match. exactly. same formatting, same font, same spacing. almost the same, exact wording, all of them. now, you might remember on last night'sshow, we noted that the forged documents from michigan and wisconsin looked really similar. looked really alike. but the arizona one actually looked a little bit different. here's the amazing thing we discovered today about arizona. it looks like there were two
sets of forged electoral college documents sent in by arizona republicans. there was the sort of different looking one that we showed you last night with notary stamps all over it, obtained by politico.com. as of today, thanks to american oversight, we've obtained another one, also from arizona, also a forgery. a whole different set of republican impostors sent one in from arizona, and that matches exactly all of the other forged electoral votes from the six other states that we've found. excuse me, from the four other states that we've found. so this is kind of nuts, right? i mean, arizona alone. in arizona, they're so around the bend that two different sets of republicans sent the national archives and congress two different sets of forged, fake documents purporting to be the electoral college votes from the state of arizona. one of those forgeries was maybe, like, freelanced, let's
get a notary to sign every page. but the other one from arizona matches exactly in form, spacing, font, and language, exactly the forgeries sent in by republicans in at least four other states. in these five states, one of the two forgeries from arizona, and the four other states, the forged documents all match. this would therefore appear to be some kind of a coordinated effort, or at least someone gave republicans in all these states the same template for creating these false records. because they all have the same font, language, spacing, formatting. that doesn't happen by accident. who organized this in these five different states? we have learn a lot in the last year about all the things former president trump and his associates did to try to seize power, to try to falsify the election results and prevent the newly elected president from
taking over. now we're starting to figure out that those efforts appear to include someone, somewhere coordinating an effort in at least five states to have republicans create and submit forged documents. electors for trump, even though these were all states that biden won. this was not a clear and coordinated effort before, but now we know it was. who coordinated this effort? at the time this was happening, pennsylvania republicans, they put out a statement saying the trump campaign had asked them to create and certify within the republican party a republican set of electors for pennsylvania. as they explained in their press release at the time, though, the pennsylvania republicans didn't forge a document to make it look like they were the real
electors. they created a new document that said they would become the electors if court ever ordered that the republican side had won the election in pennsylvania. they didn't forge a document saying they believed they were, they were purporting to be the official electors from pennsylvania. they created a document that said if a court ever says republicans won in pennsylvania, then we'll be the electors. they say the trump campaign advised them to create that alternate slate. we're trying to track down the claims, if in fact the trump campaign was recruiting republicans to not just create contingent electors, but if they were commissioning them to forge official looking documents in multiple states where the wrong electors purported to be the real electors, we'll do our best to get to the bottom of that. but here's something else to note. after these forged documents
were created and submitted to congress and the national archives, from these five states, where fake slates of electors said we're the electors from our states, five states, after that happened, at least one trump loyal itself from the u.s. department of justice was aware that republicans had done this in multiple states. one of the trump officials who has pled the fifth, invoking his fifth amendment rights against self incrimination to avoid testifying to the january 6th investigation, his name is jeffrey clark. clark, he's the one trump reportedly tried to install as attorney general right at the end. best we can tell from public reporting, trump seemed to like the cut of his jib after jeff clark drafted a letter that he insisted must go out on justice department letterhead to some of the states that trump lost,
including georgia. this letter that was reportedly drafted by jeff clark was addressed to the state government in georgia, it was reportedly going to be sent to multiple other states as well. the letter falsely stated that the u.s. justice department was investigating serious credible claims of fraud, and the state legislature should therefore consider holding back the state's electoral college votes. jeff clark drafted this letter from the u.s. justice department to go to georgia and other states. and because the rest of the justice department wouldn't sign off on it and do it, trump tried to install clark as attorney general so he could sign it attorney general. had that happened, think about it, had the u.s. justice department jumped in the way trump wanted to, the way clark proposed. had the u.s. justice department told republican led states in formal letters, don't send in
biden electors on advice from the u.s. justice department you better not do that, how do you think republican legislatures in those states would have acted? it's one thing to get, you know, an off the wall call from trump berating you. right? it's another thing for the u.s. justice department to formally advice you over the signature of the united states attorney general that you must not send in your electors, because there's real problems with the vote in your state. how would republican legislatures have responded? we would be living in a different country right now. i'm not sure all of us would be living in the same country anymore, if that had come out. that would have been insanity. that would have been as crazy as trump's plan to send out the national guard to seize election
information. here's the thing, that insane draft letter written by jeff clark, which made trump want to install him as attorney general, it was apparently created late last december. dated december 28th, 2020. that letter explicitly describes these forged slates of electors from multiple states. it says in the middle of the letter, the department believes that in georgia and several other states, both a slate of electors supporting biden and a separate slate of electors supporting trump gathered on december 14th, and both sets of ballots have been transmitted to washington, d.c., to be hoped by vice president pence. i don't know why the justice department believed that to be true, but that was correct. we now know, republicans in multiple states had sent in false assertions, forged documents claiming to be the electors for their states.
that draft letter was dated december 28th. how did that guy, that trump guy at the justice department know that two weeks earlier, republicans in at least five states had in fact created these forged elector documents? did the trump justice department know about it, because they helped republicans in those states do it? we don't know. but somebody helped them do it, because they all filed the exact, same document in the same font, in the same spacing, with the same language. so somebody helped them do it. we're working on figuring it out. and one other thing about this i'll tell you about. in a lot of these states, for whatever reason, the forged, fake elector votes, the documents that were sent in, they also, in addition to the assertion that these were the duly elected electors from these states, which was a lie, a lot
of them also included a bunch of substitutions. meaning the people who were originally supposed to be electors for the state had trump won, the originals had their names dropped, and they were replaced with other names, with other republicans who did sign these documents. so when the fake documents were created to try to pass these off as the state's electors, some of those who had been slated to be trump electors, were substituted at the last second. in almost every state that did this, people who were originally supposed to be trump electors got replaced with others before the forged documents got sent in. why is that? we're trying to get to the bottom of that, too. but at first pass, in at least one state, at least one of the republicans who was substituted for, whose name was dropped as an elector, one republican who was replaced by somebody else before the forged document was
signed and sent in, that republican told us this evening that that substitution was deliberate. that person had their name taken off the list and replaced because that person did not want to be part of that effort to forge a slate of electors that was not the real electors from that state. one of the republican electors who was replaced in georgia. that person told us this tonight. i knew the meeting was taking place, but i did not wish to attend or give my electoral vote knowing that president biden had already been certified by the state. which you would hope would be the reaction from every republican approached to sign their name as if they were a real elector in a state that was not won by their candidate, but that in fact was won by the other guy. so they wouldn't be electors at all. you would hope that would be the reaction from everyone approached to forge a document like this, and sign their name to it under circumstances like
this. but in at least five states, we know they filled out a full slate of fake electors who were willing to put their names there. there was at least one republican we know of who balked, who wanted nothing to do with this. there are at least a dozen other republicans who were also substituted out, for whatever reason they had their names replaced, and other republicans signed instead. we know at least one decision was a matter of conscience and patriotism. we'll see if we can find out about the others. as we reported in december, there is an open question in wisconsin as to whether the forgery will be pursued by the state election board, or by state prosecutors. they said they were the electors, and were not, and tried to pass themselves off that way. that would appear to be against
the law in wisconsin. it's an open question as to whether it will be pursued as a criminal matter. in michigan, the detroit news has just reported that the matter is part of an ongoing information by the attorney general's office. a spokeswoman declined to discuss the legality of the republican certificate in detail, saying it was part of an ongoing probe. saying that is part of an information into election related matters. we're not in a position to share specifics as the review remains ongoing. so, as to whether the people who did this will get in trouble, open question in at least two states, i don't know about the others. but this is a thing that happened, and apparently in five states at least. this is a new element we didn't previously understand about the way trump world tried to falsify the election results and to try to stop the transfer of power.
it may have put in individual legal jeopardy all of the republicans who put their names on these forged documents in at least five states. the basis for all these efforts they made to throw out the real results in the states were these false claims of fraud, which frankly they started hyping even before the election. they're still hyping them now. they're still hyping them now, both to justify new restrictions on the right to vote, and trying to subvert the reality of the last one. and that's a connection that in atlanta today, president biden argued loudly and clearly. >> here's how they plan to subvert the election. the georgia republican party, the state legislature, has now given itself the power to make it easier for partisan actors,
their crocronies, to remove loc election officials. think about that. what happened the last election? the former president and allies pursued, threatened, and intimidated state and local election officials. election workers, ordinary citizens were subject to death threats. many received phone calls, people stalking them in their homes. remember what the defeated former president said? quote, i just want to find 11,780 votes. thank god, he didn't say that part. he didn't say count the votes. he said find votes. that he needed to win. he failed because of the courage of the officials, democrats, republicans, who did their duty and upheld the law.
but with this new law in georgia, his loyalists will be placed in charge of state elections. what is that going to mean? well, the chances for chaos and subversion are even greater, as partisans seek the results they want no matter what the voters have said. no matter what the count. the votes of nearly 5 million georgians will be up for grabs if that law holds. it's not just in georgia. last year alone, 19 states, not proposed, but enacted 34 laws attacking voting rights. there were nearly 400 additional bills, republican members of state legislatures tried to pass. and now republican legislatures in several states have already
announced plans to escalate the onslaught this year. the end game, to turn the world of voters into a mere suggestion. something states can respect or ignore. jim crow 2.0 is about two insidious things. voter suppression, and election subversion. it's no longer about who gets to vote. it's about making it harder to vote. it's about who gets to count the vote. and whether your vote counts at all. it's not hyperbole. it's a fact. >> voter suppression and election subversion. president biden speaking today in atlanta, trying to rally the country in support of strong new federal protections for voting rights, and for the nonpartisan administration of election.
he's speaking to the country today, but it's 100 americans in the united states senate who will make or break this issue. who are both the intended audience, and the instrument on which this tune has to play. whether or not it can be done, whether or not it can be changed, in terms of two conservative democrats, remains to be seen. we'll get it into next, with senator amy klobuchar. klobuchar. s can cause tardive dyskinesia, or td, and it's unlikely to improve without treatment. ingrezza is a prescription medicine to treat adults with td movements in the face and body. it's the only treatment for td that's one pill, once-daily, with or without food. ingrezza 80 mg is proven to reduce td movements in 7 out of 10 people. people taking ingrezza can stay on their current dose of most mental health meds. don't take ingrezza
if you're allergic to any of its ingredients. ingrezza may cause serious side effects, including sleepiness. don't drive, operate heavy machinery, or do other dangerous activities until you know how ingrezza affects you. other serious side effects include potential heart rhythm problems and abnormal movements. it's nice people focus more on me. ask your doctor about ingrezza, #1 prescribed for td. learn how you could pay as little as zero dollars at ingrezza.com. age is just a number. and mine's unlisted. try boost® high protein with 20 grams of protein for muscle health. versus 16 grams in ensure high protein. boost® high protein also has key nutrients for immune support. boost® high protein. manhood looks different from guy to guy. but when yours bends in a different direction, you might feel bothered by it. so talk to a urologist. because a bend in your erection might be peyronie's disease or pd. it's a condition that involves a buildup of scar tissue. but, it's treatable. xiaflex is the only fda- approved nonsurgical treatment for appropriate adult men with peyronie's disease. along with daily penile stretching
and straightening exercises, xiaflex has been proven to help gradually reduce the bend. don't receive if the treatment area involves your urethra, or if you're allergic to any collagenase or any of the ingredients. may cause serious side effects, including: penile fracture or other serious injury during an erection, and severe allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis. seek help if you have any of these symptoms. do not have any sexual activity during and for at least 4 weeks after each treatment cycle. sudden back pain reactions after treatment may occur. tell your doctor if you have a bleeding condition or take blood thinners as risk of bleeding or bruising at the treatment site is increased. talk to a urologist about what your manhood could look like. find a xiaflex-trained urologist at bentcarrot.com i recommend nature made vitamins, because i trust their quality. they were the first to be verified by usp, an independent organization that sets strict quality and purity standards. nature made. the #1 pharmacist recommended vitamin and supplement brand. . .

i've been having these quiet conversations with members of congress for the last two months. i'm tired of being quiet! state legislatures can pass anti-voting laws with simple majorities. if that's true, we should be able to protect voting rights by a simple majority. today, i'm making it clear. to protect our democracy, i
support changing the senate rules whichever way they need to be changed to prevent a minority of senators from blocking action on voting rights. when it comes to protecting majority rule in america, the majority should rule in the united states senate. >> president biden today making this forceful public case for voting rights. for changing the senate rules, whichever way they need to be changed in order to allow the senate to pass voting rights protections with a majority of the u.s. senators, the majority of the senators in the u.s. senate voting for it. he said he was tired of quiet negotiations with legislators. now here's the million dollar question. will the senate act? what effect does this kind of
public clarion call have on the senate? joining us now, senator amy klobuchar, chair of the rules committee. one of the lead sponsors of the freedom to vote today. she just returned to d.c. aboard air force one with president biden. senator, thanks for being here. i know it's been a long day. >> thanks,rachel. >> go ahead. >> i did want to say, president biden's speech was wonderful tonight, as was vice president harris'. but there was this moment when he talked about how there was a moment in time, and this has happened through history, where time basically stops. he brought up the bomb blowing up in the church in birmingham, when john lewis crossed that bridge, and he got hit, and
people got killed, and people got injured. and he brought up january 6th. there are those moments, and this is one of those moments. it didn't begin or end on january 6th. it's been a concerted effort. over 400 bills across the country, many of them passed, to take people's rights away to vote. some people don't want some people to vote, as reverend warnock has said. this is a moment when time stands still, and this is the argument we're making to these two senators. >> i was also struck with the argument the president made about the way the partisan shift on this issue has changed over time. the way he went out of his way, speaking in atlanta, speaking in blue dot atlanta, in blue state georgia, in front of a supportive audience. but talking about how
republicans until quite recently, all but unanimously supported voting rights, people like george w. bush and strom thurmond. he talked about thurmond, the anti-civil rights icon, who in the end supported the voting rights act. this is something that even republicans found necessary to do by massive margins in the past. that is both an indictment of republicans but also of democrats who won't do what needs to be done in order to get it passed. i wonder about what your reflections were about these things? >> i think it makes the case. i cherish the work i've done across the aisle. i've passed a bunch of bills, as i've mentioned many times. but the point is, they're not playing on this right now. even though, and that's why i think he felt it was important to make the case, in the past,
democracy triumphed. it's more important than any divides between us. but right now, because of the large shadow of donald trump over the republican party, there are very few people that are willing to stand up like you're seeing with liz cheney, with the january 6th commission, that she's willing to stand up, over in the house. and it's just not happening in the senate right now when it comes to voting rights. and the case i've made in those rooms to my colleagues, where we want it to happen, to quote "hamilton," the filibuster has -- it is unbelievable, changes to the filibuster are not radical. they've happened 160 times,rachel. changes have happened where bills have been passed without the 60 vote, 1977 national gas policy, 1980, selective service, 1987, national defense bill, 1995, endangered species bill.
the bush and trump tax cuts. what just happened with mcconnell and the debt ceiling. history is riddled with exceptions and changes that were made. it was robert byrd himself, and i've said this to senator manchin several times. he said, you change the rules when there are changed circumstances.rachel, an all-out assault on our democracy is a changed circumstance. >> we're going to see if we believe senator schumer about the timing here. as soon as tomorrow, as late as monday, martin luther king day, we are going to see a vote in the senate. is there anything else we should look for ahead of that vote in terms of conversations, events, pronouncements? or just wait to see how it will go when the roll call happens? >> there's a lot of drama right now. but i think that's good. that's democracy. we're talking to both senators, groups of people. our whole voting group that has
been there from the beginning, including senators schumer, merkley, king, padilla, warnock, it's a group that is not giving up. and as other senators have been involved in meeting with senator sinema. people feel so strongly about this. and this is not a liberal/moderate divide. there are two senators who are working through this with us, but there are a whole bunch of moderates and people from states like senator tester of montana who have seen good democracy rules. suddenly, after 15 years, you have same day registration taken away in that state. thousands of people have relied on that. just one example you don't hear about this all-out assault on democracy across the country. when you look through history, and we were there in georgia, where history happened, the federal government response.
they may not do it right away, but we can't do it anymore. the federal government responded with civil rights violations, when things have happened. it's on us right now. it's just making the case to the two senators, as vociferously as we can. this is not a radical change. what is radical is people who are undermining our democracy. we can always have differences of opinions, democrats and republicans. but it's our job to point out, that votes are counted fairly, that people aren't doing sham audits and fake certifications, and they're not throwing people off of election boards and they're not dismantling these election boards. this will be solved through the
freedom to vote act. >> senator, thank you for joining us tonight. as you say, a lot of drama here right now. we look to you to understand it. thanks for being here. >> thank you,rachel. >> okay. we'll be right back. stay with us. okay. we'll be right back. stay with us un payroll in less than 5 minutes... ...so you can stay... one step ahead. narrator: on a faraway beach, the generation called "our greatest" saved the world from tyranny. in an office we know as "oval," a new-generation president faced down an imminent threat of nuclear war. on a bridge in selma, alabama, the preacher of his time marched us straight to passing voting rights for every american. at a gate in west berlin, a late-generation american president demanded an enemy superpower tear down a wall
and liberate a continent. american generations answering the call of their time with american ideals. freedom. liberty. justice. for today's generation of leaders, the call has come again to protect our freedom to vote, to fortify our democracy by passing the freedom to vote act and the john lewis voting rights act because america - john lewis: we are not going back, we are going forward. (music) john lewis: we are not going back, ♪ i think to myself ♪ ♪ what a wonderful world ♪
thanks to realtor.com's home alerts we were able to see the newest homes on the market, super fast. so we could finally buy our first "big boi house." big boi house. big boi kitchen! big boi waterfall shower! big boi crawl space. big boi sold sign, big boi logo. realtor.com to each their home. ♪ got my hair ♪ b ♪ got my head ♪, big boi logo. ♪ got my brains ♪ ♪ got my ears ♪ ♪ got my heart ♪ ♪ got my soul ♪ ♪ got my mouth ♪ ♪ i got life ♪
most bladder leak pads were similar. until always discreet invented a pad that protects differently. with two rapiddry layers. for strong protection, that's always discreet. question your protection. try always discreet.
there's one thing every senator and every american should remember. history has never been kind to those who sided with voter suppression over voter's rights. and it will be even less kind with those who side with election subversion. so i ask every elected official in america, how to you want to be remembered? at consequential moments in history, they present a choice. do you want to be on the side of dr. king or george wallace? do you want to be on the side of john lewis, or bull connor?
do you want to be on the side of abraham lincoln or jefferson davis? >> some of the most pointed remarks from president biden today, as he urged a change in the rules of the senate if need be to change voting protections. and the direct action over the course of the past year has included hunger strikes, rallies, marches, and nonviolent civil disobedience. this, outside of the oval office, people were arrested. that is ben jealous, who called on president biden to do more on this issue. he's taken part in five such protests outside of the white house, he was arrested four times, spent a night in jail, to try to push the president to do
more when it comes to voting rights protections. ben jealous was there today. he joins us now. thank you for making time to be here tonight. i've been dying to talk to you, my friend. >> thank you, it's good to be here. >> i didn't know what you would think of president biden's speech today. you told our producers that you heard what you wanted to hear from him, he hit it out of the park. i wanted to hear your take. >> first of all, i appreciate you showing so many clips. what we needed to hear wasn't just that what we saw in georgia was outrageous, but he had a plan for dealing with it. he presented the plan today, and made the case to everyone in his party, even the more conservative members, about why they needed to get onboard and
get onboard now. i have every faith that he will follow up and do what happens after something like this, which is to go push hard in the senate publicly and in private. frankly, today looks like the beginning of a winning presidential push. >> in terms of senator manchin and senator sinema, the two that we know of who are in the way, president biden isn't singling them out by name. he's not directing people to pressure them. but certainly, one of the effects of a clarion and public call like this, people are going to lobby and pressure and try to reason with those two senators to try to move them on this issue. are you optimistic that this may succeed? >> i am. nelson mandela told us, it's always impossible until it's done. and we've heard again and again, it would be impossible to get joe manchin on this bill.
he said he would never support the for the people act. well, the freedom to vote act has 90% of the content of the for the people act, he's one che filibuster. you don't have to end the filibuster in order -- you don't have to have a carve out in the filibuster. you can change the rules in ways to allow ultimately for an up or down vote. the filibuster is so bastardized over the years that you could do a lot short of getting rid of it changing rules that would allow for that vote. kyrsten sinema, i heard the president speak to directly, when he said, whose side you want to be on? connors' or kings'.   sinema is well aware arizona was the last state to support martin luther king jr. tay as a holiday. she doesn't want to extend that. and if manchin comes over and there is a lot of movement, if
you -- many of us have become sort of students of manchin, watching him. he is moving in the right direction. once he crosses the line, she will fall, too. she does not want to be all alone. she does not want to be on the side of goldwater, which is, you know, in her state. >> ben jealous, people for the american way, former president and ceo of the naacp, thanks for joining us. i am really, really glad you were able to be here tonight, my friend. >> thank you.   we'll be right back. stay with us. iend. >> thank you.   we'll be right back. stay with us i want my daughter riley to know about her ancestors and how important it is to know who you are and to know where you came from. we're discovering together... it's been an amazing gift.



one of the first people that encouraged me to run for president, believe that despite my youth, despite my inexperience, despite the fact that i was african american, i could actually win. at the time, that made one of us. >> a friend in need, harry's
voice was so often gentle, and praised himself, he was stone cold silent. pursuit of fairness and prosperity, his voice would echo and will echo for generations in this state. >> something to be eulogized by not one, but two, united states presidents. but that was president biden and former president barack obamaual jazzing a lion of the u.s. senate, harry reid at his funeral in las vegas this past weekend. tomorrow former senate leader harry reid will lie in state in d.c. under the capitol rotunda. this is a very, very rare honor. of the service in his honor will start at 10:30 a.m. eastern. there will be speeches thereafter. it's going to be an elaborate event. you can watch that here live tomorrow on msnbc. we'll be right back. c. we'll be right back.
need your prescription refilled? capsule pharmacy can fill and hand deliver your medications
- the same day - for free. go to capsule.com to get started. we handle your insurance, coordinate with your doctor, and text you when your medication is ready. all you have to do is schedule delivery. we bring your medication directly from our pharmacy, straight to your doorstep. get your prescriptions filled and delivered today - for free. go to capsule.com and get started in 15 seconds.
your plain aspirin could be hurting your stomach. vazalore... is the first liquid-filled aspirin capsule clinically shown to cause fewer ulcers than plain aspirin. try new vazalore. aspirin made amazing! the pandemic made teaching and learning really hard. but instead of working to help students safely return to the classroom, the san francisco school board focused on renaming schools and playing politics. and they've even saddled our district with a $125 million deficit. our children can't wait for new leadership. here's our chance for a fresh start. on february 15th, please recall school board members collins, lópez and moliga before our kids fall even further behind. when you have xfinity, you have entertainment built in. which is kind of nice. ah, what is happening.
binge-watching is in the bag, when you find all your apps, all in one place. find live sports faster just by using your voice... sports on now. touchdown irish! [cheering] that was awesome. and, the hits won't quit, with peacock premium included at no additional cost. all that entertainment built in. xfinity. a way better way to watch.   that is going to do it for us tonight. we are expecting a busy day particularly in washington tomorrow. again, harry reid, former senate majority leader, will be lying in state under the capitol dome tomorrow, we will have live coverage of that memorial starting tomorrow at 10:30 eastern. if you listen to senate democrats it's possible they could be taking up that vote on voting rights and whether they are going to carve out something from voting rights, from senate