we appreciate you but we are not going to vote for your guy, is that start to make other republicans question donald trump's relevance and influence? >> i think we are seeing that happen day by day, i think that's the subtext here. -- brooks. >> thanks, therachelmaddowshowstarts right now with ali velshi. >> good evening, chris. have yourself a good night, we will see you tomorrow. and thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. i am coming to you once again tonight from warsaw, poland. breaking news tonight, though, in the united states, a resignation letter from a new york prosecutor who was leading an investigation into donald trump. that prosecutor says, in the letter, that donald trump is guilty of numerous felonies and that he quit his job because he was not going to be allowed to indict the former president. we are going to have much more on that in just a few minutes but i want to start back here in europe, where president biden has arrived in brussels,
meeting with fellow nato members about the ongoing crisis in ukraine. later this week, biden will be coming here to poland. poland became a member of nato in 1999. and in 1999 is relevant because that year the alliance was faced with another crisis that was beyond its borders. less than two weeks after poland joined nato, nato began a bombing campaign against yugoslavia. it had the goal of getting serbian ruler slow biden slope anomalous of it -- where he was massacring albanian's. it was right in the middle of that bombing campaign and ongoing negotiations to try to strike a deal with miloevi that this happened. >> and the deal -- slope anomalous which has been indicted as a war criminal by
the international tribunal in the hague. >> -- charged with the murder of -- the deportation of 7 to 40,000 and so more charges are likely. the secretary of state madeleine albright suggest that instead of dealing with miloevi he should be removed from power to stand trial before the world court in the hague. >> we have made clear that we would not go for any kind of immunity. >> now, that was the first time in history that a head of state had been indicted for war crimes. and u.s. secretary of state, madeleine albright, said that milosevic would face justice. no immunity deals. she would go on to institute a policy of withholding u.s. aid to yugoslavia, unless they handed over milosevic for prosecution, a strategy which ultimately worked. slow down slobodan milosevic was extradited hagan 2001. when he died in 2006, his trial
for genocide was ongoing. madeleine albright, america's first female secretary of state, was herself a child of european strife, born in czechoslovakia in 1937. her family fled the country twice. first from the nazis and then from the soviets. just a couple of days after we milosevic was indicted, albright delivered a commencement address at georgetown university and said this. >> the great lesson of this century is that when aggression and brutality go unopposed, like a cancer they spread. and what begins as a treatable sickness in one part of the body can rapidly endanger the whole. >> that was 1999 the very end of the century she was describing. and the implicit hope was that by learning the lessons of the 20th century, its horrors could be avoided in the 21st. madeleine albright died today,
she was 84 years old. flags have been lowered to half staff at the white house in her honor and her death comes on the day that the u.s. president is arriving in a europe, once again facing war, to meet with nato leaders facing their greatest crisis in decades. her death also comes on the day that her late successor as secretary of state made new allegations of war crimes. secretary of state anthony blinken today announced that, quote, the united states government assesses that members of russia's forces have committed war crimes in ukraine. and making that announcement, blinken specifically cited the russian bombing of two sites in the eastern city of mariupol maternity hospital and a theater that we sheltering civilians and which was clearly marked with the word children in huge letters that were visible from the sky. new drone footage of mariupol she is the absolute devastation from the russian bombardment of that city. this fitted footage was released by the azov battalion,
a right-wing militia with neo-nazi ties, and despite its history, they were absorbed into the ukrainian national guard, and have been fiercely defending the city from the russians. -- >> meanwhile, to the west, -- to the city of mykolaiv but at a terrible cost. a psychiatric hospital was bombed yesterday. a troop barracks was hit over the weekend, killing dozens. today the washington post reports that hundreds of bodies are piling up in that city's morgues and in -- casualties of the heavy fighting staving off the russians. and as richard engel reports from kyiv tonight, the capital is not being spared either. but just as in mykolaiv, ukrainian forces are holding the line and even making gains. >> russia has significantly intensified its attacks in and around kyiv over the last 24 hours, leaving more and more homes across the city like this
one. >> barbara, a resident and volunteer, said russia has already bombed in this area four times. but it is not helping rushes advance. in a government building in kyiv, two of the capitals top security officials monitor a realtime battle map, i'm classified, that shows russian troops are losing territory around kyiv. the red areas are under russian occupation. the blue areas are new territory. ukrainian forces say they recaptured this territory in the last 48 hours, much of it in the last 24 hours. >> a senior u.s. defense official echoed that assessment today, telling nbc news that ukrainian forces have pushed russian troops back at least 15 miles outside of kyiv. nato said today, that somewhere between 7000 and russian 15,000 russian troops have been killed since the invasion began but that tens of thousands more have been injured. these are staggering numbers of accurate. in russia, there are reports of divisions within the kremlin
leadership, top intelligence officials being put under house arrest. and today, a top advisor reportedly stepping down and leaving the country entirely, citing his opposition to the war. things are not going well for russia in this war but that does not mean they are going well for ukrainians living there on the ground. a war they did not want. joining us now from lviv, is cal perry, msnbc news correspondent. as we just heard from richard engel's reporting, ukrainian forces have gained back some ground for the russians. what is the latest you are hearing about these counter offensives? hearing about these counte >> so, this is, i think, an astonishing development in just the last 24 hours. it comes, obviously at an opportune moment for the president as he arrives in brussels, changing the dynamic of the negotiations and a possible cease-fire. on the eastern side of the capitol -- we are talking up here of now -- we understand that ukrainian forces have actually broken through those russian lines. as you said, actually pushing
the russians back some 15 miles on the eastern side of the capital. on the western side of the capitol we understand that they tried a counter offensive but that the west russians dug in and made defensive positions, basically entrenching the positions and then shelling this a billionaire's. that is what we are seeing play out in the eastern part of the country. as you mentioned, mariupol has been under siege now for almost two and a half weeks, a place that has not had power or water or food. it is a place where the government says that they're 100,000 civilians, who are basically trapped underground and, as they put it, are basically hostages to the russian offensive. you have in kharkiv, in the northern part, a similar situation playing out, as is the case in chernihiv and what this lays out is a difficult situation for president biden and the president of ukraine. as they are negotiating with the russians, it's always been a concern that maybe the russians are just buying time. that they are buying time to regroup, and to refocus their forces on the capital. so, the question that you have for the president here in ukraine is, does he go for a
cease-fire knowing that civilians are living through hell in the eastern part of the country? with this and relating and relenting bombardment? with ambulances being attacked and the civilians coming under fire? or, does the president of ukraine keep pushing forward with his counter offensives, trying to keep the russians on their heels and move them back? it's an impossible decision to make, of course, because you want to humanitarian groups to be able to get into the cities and you want civilians to be able to get out and all around them a war is raging. on the humanitarian front, and ali this is what i know that president biden is going to try to get a look at, within 10 million people have fled their homes, more than 4 million people have left this country. when it for ukrainians has had their lives upended, ali. >> more than 10 million people have left their homes. this is really important. there are a lot of displaced people inside ukraine. nato leaders are set to meet in a couple of hours, cal, and
president zelenskyy is expected to address them virtually. given the conundrum he faces, he has to sort this out in the next few hours, correct? because his requests for nato are going to have to reflect what he actually wants? does any of that change because of the situation on the ground? >> well, we know he is going to call for a no-fly zone. he has been calling for a no-fly zone four weeks. been calling for no-fly zone fowhat he is going k about red lines. we hear the discussion about chemical weapons, about possible nuclear tax, and we hear president biden saying today that's a real concern. expected to talk about that and expect him to say to nato, look, these bombings from the air -- for example, in mariupol, where you have the strikes on civilians sheltering in that heat, or in that school -- he is going to say that this is happening at the hands of these western countries, at the hands of nato and that is no-fly zone needs to go in. we know that that is clearly untenable. we have heard that from nato. and that that is not going to have. but the question is -- and i think we can expect him to raise -- it what is the red line? what is the red line at which nato triggers article five?
even if it is not an attack on nato nations, to where it is just such an egregious violation of human rights that something has to be done? that is the tone that zelenskyy is going to try to strike tomorrow. >> kyle, thank you very much, please continue to stay, safe cal perry there in lviv for us tonight. i want to turn now to a member of the ukrainian parliament. she joins us from kyiv. thank you for being with us and i know it is the middle of the night. you have two hats and on one hand you are a member of parliament and on the other hand you have been involved in the people that cal was just talking about. 10 million people out in their homes, 4 million having fled the country. this humanitarian disaster is almost overtaking the discussion about nato and its relationship with ukraine and what its obligations are. >> well, truly, it is a terrible disaster, a humanitarian disaster here in ukraine. we just got some polls released,
saying that some 40% of ukrainians have had their family split because of the war. part of the family is in one place and part of the families living in another place. 44%, half of the ukrainians. half not with their loved ones. that's extremely difficult, extremely complicated. and i am saying it as a mom. i was not able to see my son for three weeks. i went to kyiv -- went to see him but went back to kyiv. i have not seen my boyfriend since the start of the war. it's extremely complicated and difficult. but we all understand that the only solution to that is to just help us win this war. and so that we can be reunited with their loved ones. >> you heard cal talking about the fact that the nato leaders and perhaps president biden will reiterate this concept of red lines that certainly involve any kind of nuclear threat that russia has got. but even chemical weapons. are you satisfied that that red line goes far enough?
given that imagery we are seeing? the destruction of these homes, the forced movement of people out of the country or to other parts of the country. is chemical weaponry the right place for that line? r that line? >> it should definitely be the red line. the stories i'm reading from mariupol all scream redlined to me. i read a story about a woman who came well from hungry, with four children. one of the children was her, another was from the niece, and the parents of that niece died. another was the child of the neighbors who died. and the fourth child, she was stranded on her vacation bus, and she saw a child sitting next to that parents, scared, and was just sitting and did not know what to do. and she grabbed the child and -- three of them --
[inaudible] this is the story i want the world to know. this is what is happening over. they're so, you can imagine -- i always think about my own son. if my son was sitting there with his parents dead and not knowing where to go, and we just randomly saved by a stranger, that is what is happening there. that is like the world war ii, that is a genocide. and i'm just begging for the world to understand that this is as scary as it gets. even in kyiv, where it is rather quiet, and it's much better than it was three weeks ago, we just got the warning that because of the fires near chernobyl, which the russians are not allowing to put out, the reason there is more -- in the air. we are not allowed to open our windows. and -- masks on the streets. that is in kyiv. that is the red line that we all understand. but it is there. i just want the world to know that this is real, this is really scary. and i think the red line has
been crossed a long time ago. just think about a child sitting next to his dead parents. i think that should be the red line and i'm going to join my president and say that we need the help, all the help that we can get to fight this monster. >> you are from the eastern city of kharkiv and last week we're talking about a fire in an open air market. you are talking about the fact that your father had actually worked there at some point. you relocated your son, mark, into western ukraine. so, you are seeing all parts of this around the country. western ukraine is relatively peaceful right now. how do you see this developing. we had a report that ukrainian forces are actually pushing ukrainian forces back around kyiv. >> yes, that's given us hope. of course, it's going to take a while. there are still many russian troops around the city. but ukrainian forces, they are really regaining some parts of the city. but we have had heavy battles. we are seeing some light
explosions around the city. but we do hope that they have managed to push them further from kyiv. there are warnings -- that if putin realizes he is losing around kyiv, then he will go for the next steps, a chemical weapon, which we've all been warned about. so, on the one hand, the fact that the ukrainian armies regaining control over the northwest of the city, it has given us hope. on the other hand, it is also scary. because we do not know how putin will react to that. >> inna sovsun, there's no part of this weather has not touched you or your family. and yet you take time to talk to us. we appreciate that. it's important that this message gets to the world. inna sovsun is a member of the ukrainian parliament. thank you for your time. police say safe. we've got a lot to get to a very busy news night. still ahead, or that the prosecutor that investigated donald trump in new york says that trump is guilty of, quote,
numerous felonies. and next, the all-important nato meeting tomorrow as the u.s. and its allies try to figure out what to do if russia uses chemical weapons in ukraine. stay with us. stay with us hi, i'm debra. i'm from colorado. i've been married to my high school sweetheart for 35 years. i'm a mother of four-- always busy. i was starting to feel a little foggy. just didn't feel like things were as sharp as i knew they once were. i heard about prevagen and then i started taking it about two years now. started noticing things a little sharper, a little clearer. i feel like it's kept me on my game. i'm able to remember things. i'd say give it a try. prevagen. healthier brain. better life. you know liberty mutual customizes your car insurance, so you only pay for what you need? oh, like how i customized this scarf?
wow, first time? check out this backpack i made for marco. oh yeah? well, check out this tux. oh, nice. that'll go perfect with these. dude... those are so fire. [whines] only pay for what you need. ♪liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty.♪
inner voice (kombucha brewer): as a new small business owner, i find it useful to dramatically stare out of the window... ...so that no one knows i'm secretly terrified inside. inner voice (sneaker shop owner): i'm using hand gestures and pointing... ...so no one can tell i'm unsure about my business finances. inner voice (furniture maker): i'm constantly nodding... ...because i know everything about furniture... ...but with the business side... ...i'm feeling a little lost. quickbooks can help. an easy way to get paid, pay your staff and know where your business stands. new business? no problem. yeah. this was the scene earlier success starts with intuit quickbooks.

today in brussels, outside nato headquarters. demonstrators were asking that long line there, quote, that humanity and at the nato border? the group held up signs in support of ukraine, like this one. close the sky, stop the war in ukraine, and russia attacks and kill civilians in ukraine. and in all caps, you can see, ukrainian lives matter. today's demonstration comes as president biden arrived earlier this season in belgium, ahead of an emergency summit in belgium tomorrow. president biden will later meet with leaders of the european union and g7, ahead of that meeting. msnbc reports that biden may increase the number of u.s.
troops in nato countries near ukraine. in addition, the nato secretary general said today that the alliance will double the number of battle groups on the eastern flank to support ukraine. and while the president and leaders of the west meet tomorrow to see how they can further support ukraine, one item they will not discuss is ukraine joining nato. the stakes ahead of tomorrow's summit could not be higher. the point is being german driven home that zelenskyy is set to address the summit tomorrow morning by video. tomorrow's summit comes amid fears of what's vladimir putin might do to win this war that u.s. officials say he believes he cannot afford to lose. before taking off or belgium this morning, president biden shared this somber assessment. >> how concerned are you about the threat of chemical warfare right now? how high is that threat? >> i think it's a real threat. >> and if that we'll threat where to turn into reality,
nato secretary general said that that would totally change the nature of the conflict. u.s. ambassador to nato told my colleague, andrea mitchell, earlier that if russia uses chemical weapons, she believes the allies are, quote, prepared to look at a list of consequences. so, how will nato respond if russia uses chemical or, god forbid, nuclear weapons? and what can we expected of an emergency summit like this tomorrow? i know just the person to ask. joining me is someone who has been side in the room for critical talks like this one, a former ambassador under president obama, now the president of the chicago council on global affairs. ambassador, good to have you here. thanks for being with us tonight. i want to ask you about this meeting. the world is looking for a response from nato, to the worsening atrocities in ukraine. what do you think needs to be the headline out of tomorrow's nato summit, which is probably the most watched in more than 20 years. >> thanks for having me.
i think the headlines should be a warning to vladimir putin that any further escalation, in particular using chemical or biological weapons or agents, will, as the, secretary said fundamentally change the assessment that nato has had with regard to its role in the conflict. i don't think that nato can stand by. i don't think the united states can stand by if platinum or putin can decide to use these heinous weapons, designed to fundamentally kill people, civilians in cities and other places, to be really effective. and say, well, we will send you some more javelin missiles. we need to continue to help ukraine defend itself. but if that happens, in my view, we need to be prepared to help ukraine directly to defend the country against this kind of attack. the, of course, is that saying that will prevent vladimir
putin from moving in this direction. and prevent the use of chemical weapons. and prevent the use of nuclear weapons. because we are all much better off of that does not happen. i understand that there are horrible things happening in ukraine. but this is a step that would fundamentally change the strategic calculus and the situation. >> so, i was just talking to the member of parliament, inna sovsun, who is in lviv, she's from eastern ukraine. her son is now in western ukraine. she said that the good news today is that the ukrainian forces seem to have pushed the russians back in some points around lviv. the bad news, she fears, is that every day that vladimir putin hasn't taken ukraine and has not succeeded maybe a day closer to either the use of chemical weapons or more airstrikes or things that are more damaging. how do you assess that? how does nato and these leaders tomorrow, how do they assess that calculus? >> well, i think she is right,
unfortunately. vladimir putin is not going to say, oh my god, i made a mistake, and pull the troops out. as the intelligence community concluded a few weeks ago, bill burns the cia director saying to congress, that he is more likely to double down. and i think one of the reasons that you heard the president say this again, this morning, was warning about the threat of chemical weapons, one of the reasons there is now a very serious concern within the administration about looking at the particular ways in which putin can escalate and can respond. one of the reasons this is going to be an issue tomorrow in brussels at a meeting is because vladimir putin has not been able to achieve his military objectives. and he is likely, unless he understands at the cost to him will even be greater, he would be likely to escalate it. that's why it's important for nato to make clear that, if that happens, nato is prepared, not only to impose serious
consequences, but at least quietly tell him, that it means that nato -- then he would really lose in ukraine. >> thank you, ivo daalder, for your analysis and time. we you know what's happening tomorrow -- you are least closest to. knowing ivo daalder is a former ambassador under president obama. and the breaking news from the prosecutor who resigned over the decision not to charge donald trump in new york city. he says trump is guilty of, quote, numerous felonies. we are going to have some expert legal advice after this. ter this nasal congestion, with powerful claritin d, so you can breathe better. feel the clarity and make today the most wonderful time of the year. claritin d.


one of my favorite supplements is qunol turmeric. turmeric helps with healthy joints and inflammation support.
unlike regular turmeric supplements qunol's superior absorption helps me get the full benefits of turmeric. the brand i trust is qunol. exactly one month ago, the two
prosecutors leading the -- investigation into donald trump and his business practices abruptly resigned. those two prosecutors had been leading a case that was centered around the allegation that trump was inflating the value of his assets in order to obtain favorable loans from banks. by all accounts, it was an investigation that appeared to be gaining momentum. according to the reporting at the time, those two very high-profile prosecutors resigned after the newly elected da, testers overseeing the case, quote, indicated that he had doubts about moving forward with the case against
trump. now, tonight, the new york times has published the resignation letter from one of those prosecutors. it is remarkable. this is the resignation letter a special assistant district eternity attorney -- sent to alvin bragg last month. quote, as you know from our recent conversations and presentations, i believe that donald trump is guilty of numerous felony violations of the penal law, in connection with the preparation and use of his annual statements of financial condition. the team that has been investigating mr. trump harbors no doubt about whether he committed crimes. he did. mr. pomerantz noted that the previous district attorney -- concluded that the facts warranted prosecution and he directed the team to present evidence to a grand jury and to seek an indictment of mr. trump and other defendants as soon as reasonably possible, and quote. the letter then explained that
the current district attorney, break, decided not to proceed with further charges, and that the investigation had been suspended indefinitely. while mr. pomerantz didn't question the district attorney's authority in making his decision, or his sincerity in believing that it was the right call, he argues in the letter that, quote, a decision made in good faith may nevertheless be wrong. i believe that your decision not to prosecute donald trump now and on the existing record is misguided and completely contrary to the public interest, and quote. he continues, we believe that the prosecution would prevail if charges were brought and the matter were tried to an impartial jury. whatever the risks of bringing the case may be, i am convinced that a failure to prosecute will pose much greater risk, in terms of public confidence, in the fair administration of justice. i fear that your decision means that mr. trump will not be held
fully accountable for his crimes. i have worked too hard as a lawyer, and for too long now, to become a passive participant in what i believe to be a grave failure of justice. i therefore resign from my position a special assistant district attorney, effective immediately. we should know, the current manhattan district attorney, brag, continues to conduct this investigation. because of that, he is barred from commenting on. president trump, of course, denies the allegations of fraud. mr. prominence in self declined to comment about the letter to the new york times. joining us now is barbara mcquade, the former united states attorney. barbara, good to see tonight. you're the person we need to talk to about this. this is quite a remarkable development that this kind of letter would be written. it was probably not written to be linked to the press. what do you make of it? >> it is a remarkable letter, elie. when these two prosecutors resigned abruptly as they did,
i think most of a speculated that there was a difference of opinion as to the merits of this case and that they were leaving because alfred brake had said that the investigation was continuing. the grand jury activity had abated. so, we knew that they were unhappy with the direction of the case. now, we see why. although, i'm not sure degree with you that this was written to be leaked to the press. it is in such detail. certainly, alfred break knew all the reasons mr. pomerantz was resigning. this one was written for the press. i don't know who leaked to the press. it seemed that someone who leaked into the press hadn't agenda. i think that might be an interesting question. why is this out in the public domain? what is it that mark prominence is trying to achieve? it may be to put pressure on break or some other entity to pursue this case. >> let's explore that a little bit. in the letter, he talks about this being a failure of the
justice system. he doesn't want to be party to that. he says that the risks of prosecuting, not prosecuting, are greater than the risks of prosecuting. so, tell me. in this system, inside the system, this gets leaked. it puts brag on his back feet. what exactly could happen as a result of this? >> i suppose, greg is an elected official. he might feel political pressure to go forward. when people say, even your own, very skilled, very experienced prosecutors say that you have this case. you can't be too skittish. there's nothing in the letter that accuses him of misconduct or corruption, anything like that. just that they have a difference of opinion. but that mr. pomrenze is absolutely convinced, as well as his colleagues, that there is a crime here and that not only can it be brought, but it should be brought. i suppose one goal for leaking this letter would be to put public pressure, as an elected official, on brag to take the step.
i think it's important to note, elliott. minds can disagree about whether charges should be brought. there are crimes that are very obvious to us. a bank robbery. you see the crime happened, we know the crime happened. the only question for trial is really, this is the right defend? it is a person who did it? and he's fraud cases, it's much more challenging. but it usually comes down to is knowledge and intent. unless the person confessed to you, that evidence is never going to be crystal clear. so, people will disagree as to how much is enough. how much in france, are you going to ask a jury to make to conclude in this case that donald trump did know that these statements were false and lies. and so, it may be that bragg wants to amass more evidence before he's willing to get there. what mr. pomerantz seems to be saying is, we have all the evidence we're ever going to get. it's not gonna get better. it's gonna get worse as time passes. now is the time to pass this case. if you won't, perhaps the southern district of new york will take note.
the state agenda -- get a referral and take this case off your hands if you won't do it. >> barbara, i knew we had the right person talk about this. it's good to see you, as always. barbara mcquade is a former united states attorney. we appreciate your time tonight. well, up next. supreme court nominee ketanji brown jackson, faced hostile questions from republicans. -- and a member of the committee. you're not going to want to miss this. ss this. so, everything we buy has that new car smell. -stahp. -i will not. food's here! this smells like a brand-new car! yup. best-in-class rewards, and a great way toward your next chevrolet, buick, gmc or cadillac. and with all those points on everything we buy... ...we're thinking suv. with leather! a new kind of appreciation with that new car smell.
- common percy! - yeah let's go!
on a trip. book with priceline. you save more, so you can “woooo” more. - wooo. - wooo. wooooo!!!!! woohooooo!!!! w-o-o-o-o-o... yeah, feel the savings. priceline. every trip is a big deal. supporters of supreme court

nominee judge ketanji brown jackson, have gathered outside the supreme court since monday. many of them, young women of color, holding signs like these that read, liberty and justice for all. my justice, she's black. confirmed kbj. all highlighting the gravity of judge jackson's potential confirmation. something all of those
supporters were eager to watch. despite the seriousness of this moment in history and the importance of the opportunity to get to know who justice jackson might be, some republican senators spent their time asking questions that have little to nothing to do with her judicial record. she has been asked about the definition of a woman, of critical race theory, whether bases are racist, the death of her religious faith on a scale of 1 to 10. she has been asked for her stance on expanding the number of seats on the supreme court, something that is well beyond the scope of the job for which she is interviewing. she has been asked repeatedly for hours about her previous sentencing decisions on child pornography cases. by the 19th hour of questioning, she finally said to senator ted cruz, quote, i've said but i'm going to say about these cases. no one case can stand in for a judge's entire record. much of the hours an hours of
questioning has been repetitive, aggressive, and off-topic. republican senators lindsey graham and ted cruz made a point to interrupt nearly every answer judge jackson tried to give them. committee chair, durbin, try to call for order. at one point, chairman durbin said to judge jackson, there is no pointing responding. he's going to interrupt. you after that barrage of incessant -- meaningful responses, senator alex monday of, california, asked judge jackson which she would say to young people watching who might doubt that they can achieve what she has. >> i hope to inspire people to try to follow. this past, because i love this country. because i love the law. because i think it is important
that we all in bass. in our future. the young people are the future. i want them to know that they can do and be anything. i went to public school and i didn't know anything about harvard until my debate coach took me there to interest me in competition. i get there and, wow. so different. i was really questioning, do i belong here? can i make it in this environment? i was walking through the yard in the evening and a black woman i did not know was passing me on the sidewalk. she looked at me, i guess she
knew how i was feeling. she leaned over as we crossed and said, her serve here. i would tell them to persevere. >> this afternoon, after hours of grueling questioning, ketanji brown jackson, the person who has ten years of experience on the bench, graduated from harvard with honors twice and would be the first justice to have worked as a public defender, this groundbreaking nominee was reminded of the joy of this moment when a senator, who knows what it means to be among the first, the few, or the only, held up this proverbial mirror and encouraged her to persevere. >> i'm telling you right now, i'm not letting anybody in the senate steal my joy.
i told you this at the beginning. i am embarrassed. it happened earlier today. i look at you. i start getting full of emotion. i am jogging this morning and i'm at the end of the block that i live on. i put my music on loud when i'm jogging, trying to block out the noise of the heart attack i'm having. this woman comes up on me, practically tackles me, african american woman. the look on her eyes, she wanted to touch me because i'm sitting so close to you and tell me what it meant to her to watch you sitting where you are sitting. you did not get there because of some left wing agenda. you did not get here because of some dark money groups. you've got here on every black woman in america who has gotten
anywhere has done, by being like ginger rogers said, i did everything fred astaire did but backwards in heels. so, i'm sitting here saying, no one is stealing my joy, no one is going to make me angry. especially not people who are cold and called in a conservative magazine, demagogue, for what they're bringing up that just doesn't hold water. i'm not going to let my door be stolen because i know you and i, we appreciate something that we get that a lot of my colleagues don't. i know tim scott does. when i first came to this place, i was the fourth black person ever populate popularly elected to the senate. i remember a lot of mixed people, white folks work here. at night, when people are in line to come clean this place the percentage of minorities shift a lot. i'm walking here, someone who's
been here for decades doing the urgent work at the senate, unglamorous work that goes on no matter whose office it is. guy comes up to me. all he wants to say, i'm so glad you are here. he comes up and can't get the words out. this man, my elder, starts crying. i just hugged him. he kept telling me, it is so good to see you here. it's so good to see you here. thank you. thank you. thank you. i love my brother, tim scott. i could write a dissertation. i wish i could have given a speech. talking to the challenges and indignities. we are still faced. you are here. i was in the white house with my democratic colleagues, again, i'm in my july. i can't help it. the president is asking our advice, who should we nominate, whatever. and i look at kamala. we have unknowing glands, which we have had four years when we
sat on the end of this committee, a times. i try and get out to the president what's it me's, what it means. i want to tell you, when i look at you, this is when i get emotional. i am sorry. you are a person who is much more than your race and gender. your question, a mom, an intellect, you love books. for me, i'm sorry. it's hard for me not to look at you and not see my mom. not to see my cousins. one of them, who had to come here and sit behind you. she had to have your back. i see my ancestors and yours. no one is going to steal the joy that women in the street, the calls that i'm getting, the tax. no one is going to steal that july. you have earned the spot.
you are where they. you are a great american. so, you have five more to go through. five more of us. and then, you can sit back and let us have all the debates. i'm gonna tell you, it's going to be a well charted senate floor. it is not going to stop. they are going to accuse you of this and that. heck, in honor of you're person who shares your birthday, you might be called a communist. don't worry, my sister. don't worry. god has got to. how do i know that? because you are here. i know what it has taken for you to sit in that seat. harry tubman is one of my heroes speak oz, the more i read about this person ... she was viciously beaten.
her whole life, cracked skull. she faced starvation, chased by dogs. when she got to freedom, what did she do? did she rest? no, she went back. again and again and again. the sky was full of stars. she found one that was a her bigger of hope. for better days. those -- she never gave up on america. she fought in the ... lead troops in the civil war. she was involved in the suffrage movement. as i came back from my brian, after being near assaulted by someone on the street, i thought about her. how she looked up. she kept looking up.
no matter what she did. she kept looking up. that star, it was a harbinger of hope. today, you are my star. you are my harbinger of whoa. this country is getting better and better and better. one that final vote happens, and you ascend onto the law highest court in the land, i am going to rejoice. i'm going to tell you right now, the greatest country in the world, the united states of america, will be better because of you. thank you. right limlimu? limu? sorry, one sec. doug blows several different whistles. doug blows several different whistles.
[a vulture squawks.] there he is. only pay for what you need. ♪liberty, liberty, liberty, liberty♪ ♪ it's the most wonderful time of the year, ♪ only pay for what you need. ♪ with the kids jingle belling ♪ ♪ and everyone telling you'll be of good cheer ♪ it's spring! claritin provides non-drowsy symptom relief from over 200 indoor and outdoor allergens,
day after day. ♪ oh the most wonderful time ♪ feel the clarity - and make today the most wonderful time of the year. live claritin clear. inner voice (furniture maker): i'm constantly nodding... ...because i know everything about furniture ...but with the business side... ...i'm feeling a little lost. quickbooks can help. an easy way to get paid, pay your staff, and know where your business stands. new business? no problem. success starts with intuit quickbooks. >> tech: does your windshield have a crack? trust safelite. success starts with >> tech vo: this customer had auto glass damage, but he was busy working from home... ...so he scheduled with safelite in just a few clicks. we came to his house... ...then we got to work. we replaced his windshield and installed new wipers to protect his new glass, while he finished his meeting. let safelite come to you. >> man: looks great. thank you. >> tech: my pleasure. that's service on your time. schedule now. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪
♪ when i got out of school, i ended up having a tremendous amount of student loan debt. sofi helped me refinance all my student loans into one loan, with one low interest rate, and one affordable monthly payment. not only have i made significant payments to my principal with sofi, i can actually see the end in sight and i believe the end in sight is near. so that has really given my family the financial freedom that we need going forward. ♪ ♪ i know there's conflicting information about dupuytren's contracture. i thought i couldn't get treatment yet? well, people may think that their contracture has to be severe to be treated, but it doesn't. if you can't lay your hand flat on the table, talk to a hand specialist.
but what if i don't want surgery? well, then you should find a hand specialist certified to offer nonsurgical treatments. what's the next step? here in warsaw, i've met a lot visit findahandspecialist.com today to get started. of polish citizens who are eager to support support for ukrainians and help anyway they
can. on the streets in warsaw's old town, i saw this young woman singing a familiar tune with a small hand drawn a picture of a ukrainian like, which was promptly co-opted by a baby who is mesmerized by her singing. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
♪ ♪ ♪ that doesn't trust tonight. we will see you again tomorrow. it's time now for the last word. good evening, my friend. >> good evening, ali, and this is such a moving way they are to end your hour of coverage. there is nothing like we're coverage and it is a struggle to figure out what's belongs in it and what we can bring in any given hour. and you always find exactly the story to tell. >> thank you, my friend, have a greatshowtonight. >> thank you, ali, thank you. senator patrick leahy has