like chips, semiconductor chips, another materials that he needs for its manufacturing sector. the sanctions were always intended to have an effect over the long term. and we expect they will. >> all right, matt miller, from national security council, thank you very much. that is all in for this evening, therachelmaddowshows right place right now, good eveningrachel. good evening, chris, how is your vacation? >> it was amazing. let me just, say quick plug, hot take, grand canyon, truly all inspiring. it is true with they say, you can't overhype it. doesn't capture it and photographs. you get there, it is a profound and overwhelming spiritual experience. totally so great. loved it. >> i completely agree. i will say, the first time i ever went to the grand canyon, i was driving cross country, i've been up for several days, at least, it felt like that at the time. i was like, grungy and an showered and hungry and cynical and it was like a weird time of the morning and i was like, i
really don't want to do this. and i just drove up, you know, parked and got that first glimpse of it and it was like i was reborn. it is a transformative instant in your life. you don't even have to prep. you don't have to get yourself ready for it. it moves you in a way that is almost impossible to impart. >> you know what's, i will say one more thing. it is a time when we are very divided, a very polarized nation. it is a universal thing. there is all kinds of different people, all kinds of different politics, all kinds of different creeds, we are there at some fundamental level, kind of experiencing the same thing and i found that pretty inspiring. >> i completely agree and i am so glad you are there and you taking your kids and you having such a great time right before the country is going through a we are going to right now, saying you guys there, doing what you're doing, maybe very happy. >> thank you. >> and thank you at-home for joining us this hour. little go to the grand canyon together sometime. what a day today was in the
news, right? it feels like it was a week at least. and the news today really came in from all directions. in one development that i am not sure has totally sunk in yet here, russia seems to be making moves to extend its war into a third country now beyond the borders of ukraine. and this i think is a significant as it sounds, which is why i'm sort of surprised it is not making a bigger splash in terms of how we think about this conflict here in the united states. on the southwest border of ukraine is a very small country called moldova. in terms of its overall size, i would say, for comparison sake, i would say the closest u.s. state by size would be roughly maryland. moldova is a little bit bigger than maryland. but that is the closest aide and size. on the very eastern side about small country, the part that borders ukraine. russia has previously stoked
conflict in that little strip of moldova. russia, in years past, has essentially signaled that they would like to take that part of moldova for russia. and that predated the ukrainian invasion that putin started in february. and now russia appears to be starting to start that project or at least creating the pretext for them going into moldova and trying to take at least part of that country as well. so, under putin, we have russia invading and taking over one neighboring country, ukraine, and now, just in case it wasn't clear enough will kind of leader putin's, will kind of move this is and whether he has -limited aims, he really does appear to be preparing to keep moving west. to keep attacking more countries, starting with moldova, even before he has achieved his purported aims and ukraine. so, that is very worrying and it would seem to create a sort of new international imperative about how we think about that
conflict and how we think about vladimir putin. the u.s. secretary of state and the u.s. defense secretary, these past couple of days, we're in ukraine. as russia starts to spread its war into yet another country, defense secretary lloyd austin said it must now be the goal of ukraine's allies, including the united states, to weaken the russian military so they can't do stuff like this anymore. and that would be an almost unthinkable thing for our u.s. defense secretary to upset in public before circumstances like this. but in the circumstances like this, it almost seems inevitable. so, tonight, we will have more on that ahead, including the news that the u.s. is reopening its embassy in ukraine's capital. we had evacuated our diplomats from that embassy at the start of the war, but they are going back to keep. all interesting stuff, all important. here at home today, the dystopian capitalist novel we all live in got a new chapter.
the kind of chapter that signals that maybe will or getting towards the end of this book. that this plot must be wrapping up. the eccentric, south african, canadian, american billionaire, ceo of tesla, the american car company. apparently is really doing it. he has decided to buy the most influential social media site in the world. he is buying twitter to have and you hold as his own private company, as his own privately held toy, which has lots of potential implications. and we will be talking this hour with an expert on what could possibly go wrong here. but of course, ever since elon musk first raised the prospect a couple of weeks ago that he might by twitter, speculation has swollen too -- donald trump might rejoin the social media site. donald trump of course was banned january of last year for using the site to try to foment a violent insurrection to overthrow the u.s. government. turns out, that's enough to get you to --
kicked off twitter. at least used to be. in response to the speculation that he might be reinstated to the platform under and elon musk own version of twitter, trump himself has reportedly say that he won't return twitter even if he is allowed to. and who knows, we'll see, but also, yeah right. as recently as this weekend, trump struggle to remember the name of the company he is supposedly forming to compete with twitter. >> by building something called truth essential -- truth social. >> building something called truth sensual -- trope truth sunshine -- the name of the company is supposedly setting up is truth social, at least i thought it was, but he is having trouble. >> by building something called truth truth sensual -- >> trough essential, truth
whatever it is. that is his supposed juggernaut idea for competing with twitter. that within this weekend, unable to remember or at least pronounce the name of this thing that he is supposedly creating that means he doesn't need twitter anymore. but now, with, a thin skinned billionaire taking over twitter to make it his private thing, presumably trump will be let back on twitter, organizing a violent overthrow of the u.s. government, making it just that more efficient. he won't have to get people to go to tropical central. today was also a dramatic day in the u.s. state courtroom -- the judge concluded today's proceedings by saying, quote, mr. trump, i know you take your business seriously and i take mine seriously. i hereby hold you in civil contempt and fined you $10,000 per day until you purge that contempt. $10,000 there starting today.
that is likely to get under someone's skin. this is the case brought by the attorney general of the state of new york, looking into alleged financial improprieties by trump and his business, the trump organization. you will recall that investigations by new york attorneys general have been a real problem for trump in the past. it was investigations from the new york attorney generals office in the past that resulted in the shutdown of trump's fraudulent charity, the trump foundation, also his allegedly fraudulent university, which was shut down and for which trump paid out $25 million cash to settle those fraud charges. this latest investigation by the new york attorney generals office targets of trump and his business directly. we don't yet know a kind of action the attorney general is going to take against trump, if any. but this is notable, i think, at the conclusion of this investigation, we will see what they are going to do. it is starting to seem like we are getting to the conclusion of that investigation in fairly
short order. i say that because a lawyer for the new york attorney generals office spoke at today's hearing and said, quote, we will likely need to bring some sort of enforcement action in the near future. the lawyer was describing some sort of timeliness deadline that the new york attorney generals office is up against in terms of making its decision. we don't know what exactly that deadline is, but that attorney generals office stopper today, that attorney said that enforcement decision will have to be made soon. it was roughly five months ago that trump received the subpoenas from this investigation, ordering him to hand over documents and financial records related to what the attorney general is looking at. apparently, he has turned over almost nothing in response to those subpoenas over the course of these five months. his lawyer told the court today that she had personally looked around to try to see if you
could find any of the relevant documents. she told the court today that she had personally flown to florida and asked trump if he had anything to hand over. she told the court today, he has nothing to hand over and she could find nothing that he should hand over. she told the court, quote, president trump does not email. he does not text message. he has no computer at home or anywhere else. with the implication being that there is nothing to search, nowhere to find anything and he says he has no paper. maybe. okay. but, in this case, again, the new york eternal generals office, looking at trump and his business for alleged financial improprieties. in this case, the court appointed a third party. they pointed an outside company to oversee the production of documents in compliance with subpoenas in this case. and that third company has just told the court that actually, they have an idea of where might be a good next place to start looking in terms of these
documents that trump hasn't handed over. quoting from court filings today, the company's report identifies to mobile phones for mr. trump, but in a case it is unknown whether these devices have been collected for discovery. the report also indicates that mr. trump's longtime executive assistant how is a laptop and a desktop computer, located in trump tower, but neither one has been collected for discovery. so, they have not been searched either. okay. a laptop, desktop computer for his death -- and also two phones of trump's. and not have been searched. and so, that is the third company that is advising on -- that is them advising like, hey, here's where the look. and now he is being fined by the court, $10,000 a day every day, until he hands everything over.
so, i don't know where either of those developments is going. either the attorney general telling the court today that the enforcement action related to trump is going to come soon. i don't know what we are going to see in that regard. nor do i know what to expect in terms of the course big daily fines against trump for defying the subpoenas and not handing over materials related to this case. if i had to guess, if the past is any prologue, i have to imagine the $10,000 a day factor is going to drive a certain someone a little cuckoo for cocoa puffs. we shall see. hopefully not on twitter. but honestly, we probably will, the way this day is going. it has been a top day all around on the trump side of the ledger though. late on friday night, we got that likely filing from the january 6th investigation, disclosing all sorts of penn state -- information we didn't have about the administration and
how they tried to pro the election results to keep trump in power after he lost reelection. that filing from late on friday night, two or 300 page long filing, that is been bolstered today by a trove of 2000 next adjusts -- text messages. they were obtained by cnn and published by cnn in part today. taken together, that falling on friday night from the january 6th investigators and these text messages disclosed today in the text -- those two disclosures paint a sort of new and unnerving picture of how involved members of congress and members of the administration were in trying to use not only perceived legal tools, legal maneuvers, political tactics, but also the threat of mob violence, to keep trump in power. first, for example, we learned from testimony to the investigation, by a -- mark meadows, that meadows was
turnout in no uncertain terms that this scheme they try to have republican controlled states send fake trunk electors to be counted in the electoral college, mark meadows was told by the white house office that this scheme was illegal. we then learned from testimony to the investigation that there is an attempted work around for that little problem of it being illegal. we have previously discussed and you have previously heard the reporting that trump molded and attempted to proverbially decapitate the department of justice, to remove its existing leadership and instead, put in place at the top of the department, this man. a man named jeff clark. you might also remember that he took the fifth amendment. he inserted his fifth amendment rights to avoid incriminating himself dozens of times during his own testimony to the january six investigation. well, why did trump want to put jeff clarke in front of the justice department?
why did he want to take out the existing leadership and instead put this guy in there? well, we have newly-learned from this new disclosure is that one of the things that jeff clark thought the justice department should do, when he thought they could do, is that the justice department should issue a legal memo, a legal opinion, stating that actually the fake electors plan was legal. and mike pence has every opportunity and every legal rights to only count electors he wanted and to send others back to the states. or indeed, to consider the illegal say -- if the justice department issued a legal memorandum stating that that was all kosher, presumably, trump thought that would solve the problem and that is why trump tried to install jeffrey clark as the new attorney general so that the justice department can do stuff like that to declare the coup to be legal. we also learned from his new disclosure that multiple members of congress participated in a call with the
white house chief of staff before january 6th. in which they discussed getting the crowd from a trump rally to go march directly on the u.s. capitol. now, if you are not familiar with the geography of d.c., and i actually had a look at this today to remind myself, via lips, which is where trump held the rally, and the capital building, where congress says, they are not next to each other. they are two miles apart from one another. so, an event that the ellipse would not organically and in the crowd at the ellipse traipsing two miles to go to the capitol building in another part of d.c.. we know this in part from experience. there were previous trump rallies protesting the election results in november and december in d.c. and they were a big and wild and in some cases, they had violence. but those did not and with people marching on the capitol. there isn't anything about a march about the election result in washington that organically
and inevitably results in the crowd surge either u.s. capitol building. especially if it starts at the ellipse on a cold day. but apparently, it was no accident that the crowd on january 6th march the two miles from the lips to the capitol building. it is not an unplanned ad lib that day -- mark meadows claimed in his memoir that that was a real surprise when trump ad libbed that remark -- now we know that meadows participated in at least one meeting with multiple republican members of congress planning for exactly that, planning for the mob at the trump rally to be steered directly at the capitol. while the vote counting was happening inside that building. also, on friday, we saw pro trump congresswoman marjorie
taylor greene, saying that her butt -- saying that she should not -- but he might declare martial law as a way of staying in power. today, we learned in fact that she did suggest that to the white house chief of staff, mark meadows, and she did it in writing in a text message. and as funny inside as it is to see her misspell martial law as -- look at that store you somehow confuse with a t.j. max. as ridiculous as this all is, it is chilling to look at the date on that text message. she was not suggesting that trump declare martial law in the heat of the election results coming in and it looking like he might not win. it wasn't even in the lead up to the january 6th counting of the electoral votes before we knew that there was going to be a physical attack on a congress. we now know republican members of congress were scheming with
the white house directly about directing the mob to leave the rallies that on january 6th and march on congress while the vote count was underway. she was not considering and advising the white house that the president should declare martial law in the heat of that craziness. no, look at the data. she sent her misspelled martial law suggestion january 17th. that is a week and a half after the january 6th attack. after the violent attack on the u.s. capital to try to keep trump in power, a week and a half later, she was advising the white house that maybe marshall always going to be the thing to do. she was suggesting that three days before the inauguration of president biden and vice president harris, suggesting martialized the way that trump should save the republic and stay in power. it's a lot. it's also -- it makes it, not hard understand, because i think i understand it, but it makes it
a remarkable thing, that the january 6th investigation apparently is not going to feel to take any testimony from serving republican members of congress in their investigation. we have known that that was unlikely when republican members of congress started saying no to request to testify voluntarily. but now that we know how many of them were up to their next in this, including being involved in the discussions about getting the mob physically to the capitol building, it is somewhat amazing but none of them are going to find themselves under oath, answering questions about what they did. joining us now is congressman adam schiff, he was a democrat in california. he's a member of the january 6th investigation. -- congressman, it is a real pleasure to see you. thank you for making time. >> great to see you. >> let me just ask you if that last point that i was making, that last question i was racing, is the right way to look at this. we know that your investigation has requested voluntary interviews from some republican members of congress and that
none of them have agreed. do you expect that the investigation will come to ascend, will come to its conclusions without ever speaking with any of the members of congress, who apparently were very involved in the machinations of this plot. >> i don't know whether we will get to speak with all of them, but it is certainly possible we will speak with some of them. and clearly, they do have very relevant information. but what's we are wrestling with is, we can subpoena them, but if you subpoena them, you have to be prepared to follow through if they refused to comply. that would mean we would refer them for criminal prosecution in addition to, obviously, with that would do in terms of riling up the house of representatives. we also have to consider, will the justice department go through with it? -- more simple cases and they have yet to act. this is why we are wrestling with.
on the positive side, as with so many of these witnesses, we are learning a lot about their interactions with the president, with the white house, notwithstanding their noncooperation. we are getting the facts and i know that at the end of the day, that is the most important thing. we can put that information out to the public and we can -- >> aside from the prospect of a referral for criminal contempt prosecution, do you feel like what we have learned thus far might suggest criminal behavior by members of congress? i'm thinking about these revelations today in this reporting from cnn that would indicate, in the words of one republican member of congress, marjorie taylor greene, that multiple members of congress believed that trump should declare martial law just ahead of the inauguration in order to stay in power and she took it
upon herself to convey that, those are jennings, and to convey that to the white house. that is the application of the overthrow the government by force. it is their indication, to your mind, that members of congress should be facing criminal charges for their involvement? >> i haven't reached a conclusion on that point, but i do agree certainly with the judge in california, judge carter, that there is compelling evidence that the president of the united states and others engaged with very possible criminal activity to obstruct congress, to defraud the united states, to engage in conspiracy. i think that there is significant evidence of corrupt intent. some of the revelations that they mentioned go to the fact that white house counsel was telling some of these players
like mark meadows that this is illegal. and it is also demonstrated that these individuals understood there was violence on that day that would be used to -- there are, i think, very substantial groups of evidence of criminality, whether those extend to congress, -- we continue to put the facts together and learn new information every day. >> do you think it is significant that we are learning from these recent disclosure is that there does seem to have been an active effort, a planned effort, not a spontaneous surprise, that it wasn't a spontaneous surprise, that the crowd that trump had rallied at the ellipse moved to the u.s. capitol? obviously, we heard trump call for that during his speech. that was portrayed as an ad
libbed a moment, as a surprise, including by mark meadows when he wrote his memoir about that. we are now seeing evidence that it was not a surprise. it wasn't ad libbed. and there was at least some planning, both involving the white house and newest members of congress, about the desirability of getting the crowd to converge on the capitol building that day. is that important? it's not just logistics or's that important in terms of the overall issue of culpability here? >> i think it is very important, to the degree that members of congress or the white house or the former president had as a part of their plan to bring that mob into the capitol, this was a way to break into the building, of trying to interrupt, disrupt, the joint session going on inside. and particularly, if the members of the administration that understood that there would be the participation of these violent, racist white
nationalist groups, i think that raises the culpability of those involved. i would also say, you asked whether marjorie taylor greene -- one thing is abundantly clear. and that is, they were violating their oath of office. they were violating their pledge to uphold the constitution. members of congress had suggested that the president used martial law. i can't imagine a more flagrant violation under sworn oath to defend the constitution. sadly, that's not disqualifying. -- evidently, what this qualifies you in today's gop is if you do uphold your oath and if you are willing to tell the truth, that puts you on a track outside of mccarthy and trump's gop. >> congressman adam schiff, democrat of california, sits on the january six committee, chair of the intelligence committee, mister chairman, thank you very much for your
time tonight. it is a pleasure to have you. >> thank you. >> i will just say, well congressman schiff was saying there about the stuff not being disqualifying in today's gop. we had crystal clear news about this weekend. a lot of state republican parties held there state conventions this weekend to pick their candidates in michigan. we saw the state republican party this weekend, by overwhelming votes, choose a republican candidate, choose their republican candidate for the general election this fall, both for secretary of state and attorney general. they chose candidates in michigan who are two people whose only claim to fame is that they are election denial lists. and are pledging that michigan's vote was stolen and that trump was rightfully reelected. in pennsylvania this weekend, we saw the gubernatorial debate, that trump endured -- purdue opened up that debate this weekend in georgia by saying that the election was rigged and trump is the
rightful president. we saw that the utah state convention this weekend, when mike lee, recently revealed to have lied about how involved he wasn't trying to get states to participate in this illegal effort to throughout their election results and send trump electors. mike lee was just exposed to having lied about that and he spoke like a rock star at this weekend. and he is nominated again. with the congressman said there is right. none of what is being revealed here is disqualifying in today's republican party. the only thing is not going along with the insurrection. much more to come here tonight. stay with us. stay with us
if you're turning 65 soon or over 65 and planning to retire... now's the time to learn more about an aarp medicare supplement insurance plan from unitedhealthcare and get help protecting yourself from the out-of-pocket costs medicare doesn't pay. because the time to prepare is before you go on medicare. don't wait. get started today. call unitedhealthcare for your free decision guide. the sleep number 360® smart bed is on sale now. it senses your movements and automatically adjusts so you both stay comfortable all night. it's also temperature balancing so you stay cool. save $1,000 on our most
popular smart bed. plus 0% interest for 36 months on all smart beds. ends monday. and it's easier than ever to get your projects done right. with angi, you can connect with and see ratings and reviews. and when you book and pay throug you're covered by our happiness check out angi.com today. angi... and done. discomfort back there? instead of using aloe, and when you book and pay throug you're covered by our happiness or baby wipes, or powders, try the cooling, soothing relief or preparation h. because your derriere deserves expert care. preparation h. get comfortable with it. when it comes to pain medicine, less is more. aleve gives long-lasting freedom from pain, with fewer pills than tylenol. instead of taking pills every 4-6 hours, aleve works up to 12-hours so you can focus on what matters. aleve. less pills. more relief lightning strikes april 26th.


that was the movie trailer style promo video for the launch of ford's new electric truck. ford f-1:50 lightning. tomorrow's april 26th, and that means it's finally here. for than the united auto workers will host a mini event tomorrow on the airborne michigan so celery the launch of that vehicle. and ford is making a big deal about this. and part, because no one is all trucks.
but also because this is kind of a big deal for the united states. the ford f-series has not only been america's most popular truck for nearly half a century, the fourth of serious pick up is the number one selling vehicle of any kind in america. and it has been for decades. not the number one selling truck, the number one selling vehicle. and in terms of america changing from gas vehicles electric vehicles, and all that means for the climate and energy politics, and everything else. it's one thing to have a boutique, niche electric car company that makes really expensive vehicles. or a low production novelty electric car that's just for the true believers. this is america's most popular vehicle. which is now going all electric. and the way they're advertising at the for that 1:50 die-hards is by saying, this is the for that 1:50 that can do more than any f1 50 has ever done before. it's more capable, more powerful, cheaper to, run
cheaper to operate, and you can do stuff with this thing they can do with the other truck before. the biden infrastructure bill allocated seven and a half a billion dollars to build electric vehicle charging stations all around the country. they've just started spending that money from the bipartisan infrastructure bill. and seven and a half a billion dollars on that. seven and a half billion dollars on new charging stations should make a note of subtle difference. it should make electric vehicles a smarter choice for millions of americans. that will really help. all this the same, it's really finally happening. when it comes to trying to get america to transition away from gaspard vehicles, we know what for it is up to wiggling vehicle in america. that's gonna be a big day for that tomorrow. we know the biden administration is up to, with those infrastructure dollars already starting to flow. but what about the world's largest electric vehicle manufacturer? where they up to right now?
oh, right. they're extrinsic ceo is shelling out an ungodly amount of money to buy a social media website. that seems like a great use of 44 billion dollars. tesla ceo, world's richest man, elon musk, has reportedly inked a deal to purchase the social media company, twitter. he's going to spend 44 billion dollars to do it, and then he will own it, privately. i know that when people started to throw around big numbers, with numbers with three cameras and them, it's hard to keep track with what it means. but just consider this, and just this context. i mentioned the bipartisan infrastructure bill allocated seven and a half million dollars for ev charging stations. for the entire country. you'll unmask is spending nearly six times that amount to buy a website where people can rate stuff in 280 characters. he elon musk buying twitter says a lot about the priorities of people at the highest levels
making decisions that could affect the fate of the planet. but of course, it also raises a lot of questions about what will happen to what is perhaps the most influential social media company in the world. at a time when authoritarians, insurrectionists, where they are weaponizing this information online in the way they've never did so before. elon musk says, he is buying twitter to save free speech online. and what he means by that is, he wants to push back on efforts to moderate content on these websites. a lot of these websites moderate content, and wouldn't you want to do instead? what will it mean for our society and our democracy that one of the bigger social media companies in the world will only be accountable to that one guy and what he considers free speech? we have just the right person to answer those questions and to talk about worst-case an aerials, next, stay with us. aerials, next, stay with us. aleve x. its revolutionary rollerball design delivers fast, powerful, long-lasting pain relief.
aleve it, and see what's possible. wayday! wayfair's biggest sale of the year is bigger than ever. for two days only, april 27th and 28th. save on all the upgrades you need to refresh your space your way. that's why we carry a large selection of kitchen faucets. so that your little update can make a big difference. wayfair has all the easy upgrades. from cabinet hardware to peel and stick tile. and with the lowest prices of the year on everything from bathtubs to vanities. even your big projects are no big deal. ♪ wayfair, you've got just what i need ♪ allergies don't have to be scary. spraying flonase daily stops your body from overreacting to allergens all season long. psst! psst! flonase all good.
do your eyes bother you? because after all these emails my eyes feel like a combo of stressed, dry and sandpaper. luckily, there's biotrue hydration boost eye drops for instant moisture. biotrue uses naturally inspired ingredients. and no preservatives. try biotrue derriere discomfort. we try to soothe it with this. and no preservatives. cool it with this. and relieve it with this. but new preparation h soothing relief spray is the 21st century way to do all three. even touch free. preparation h. get comfortable with it.
before i got aura, twenty-four of my online accounts were hacked! he uses the same password for everything. i didn't want to deal with it. but aura digital security just dealt with it. what were we worried about again? shopping on public wifi is sketchy. but with aura digital security, my devices are protected in like 3 minutes. it's time to protect your life online with aura's all-in-one digital security. try for free today at aura.com what was that password anyway? ew. finding the perfect designer isn't easy. but, at upwork, we found her. she's in austin between a dog named klaus and her favorite shade of green. it's actually salem clover.
and you can find her right now on upwork.com when the world is your workforce, finding the perfect project manager, designer, developer, or whomever you may need... tends to fall right into place. find top-rated talent who can start today on upwork.com we're going to let you long
mosque purchase -- the overrespond's to that, and does the white house have any concern that this new agreement might have president trump back on the platform? >> well, i'm not gonna comment on a specific transaction. but i can tell you is it's a general matter. no matter who owns or runs twitter, the president is concerned about large social media platforms. the power they have over our everyday lives. all tech weapons must be held accountable for the harms they
cause. >> but our secretary jen psaki today responding to the news that billionaire ceo elon musk will buy twitter and have it as his own personal toy. joining us now is ben collins, is a reporter covers this information, extremism, for nbc news. ben, thanks for being here, it's nice to see you. >> thanks. >> your beat is disinformation and extremism online. is your beat going to get worse or better? >> that depends on what elon musk decides to do the service. he said a couple of things. he's taking a lot of populist positions on some user futures, for example, the added biden. the much fabled added by that is going to come to twitter. he says that's gonna happen. that can be positive or negative, we don't know what that looks like in practice. that is also said a lot of things about free speech, and that's great. free speech is the fundamental principle of this country. but moderation is different than free speech.
and moderation is hard. it's extremely hard. in fact, it's an art, it's not a science. it's an unwinnable game. and he just got the worst job of the world. he's now the king of content moderation on the world's fastest moving use platform. if you thought this was going to be fun, i don't know what's going on in his heart. it's gonna be a world of hurt. >> i feel like, man, one of the things we've seen one other people have not taken over big media companies, but started their own niche media companies on this issue of free speech and not doing content moderation, and it being a wide open, wild left, and that's the point of it, is that pretty quickly we get lots of isis beheading videos and child pornography and eating disorder dysmorphia photos and other things that, in some cases, are illegal. and in other cases, make the site, make the use of the site
and possible for a normal humans with normal gag reflexes. is that -- a, is that fair? and, b, how does mr. musk contend with -- how would mr. musk contend with that kind of previous experience with other people who have taken on the same task? >> yeah, that's incredibly fair, from both sides of this. both sides of the spectrum here, from the extremist for inside, and from the civilian and enough side. from the civilian side, you have stuff like tiktok and twitter and facebook. is a content moderation challenge from tiktok a few weeks ago. a few weeks ago, a girl on tiktok was trying to make's line, just trying to make slim, and she make napalm by mistake. is that free speech? tiktok took that down. they found it, and they thought, this is very dangerous, very bad. we shouldn't be teaching kids how to make napalm, that's an
issue. i would bet elon musk twitter is going to take that down. but i don't know? i'm not really sure here what falls into that space? especially now that he is taking the company private. oversight on this thing will be right different. and i will say, by the way, everybody has a line. 4chan, for example, i don't think that fortune is the worst sight on the internet. and it was for a long time. but they had a line. they had a direct line. and that line, to them, was anomie depictions of child pornography. and they started taking that down, this was a few years ago. and so we got a chance. a chance, said we are going to create a space for literally everything is allowed. if you want to do those animated depictions of child pornography, is allowed on 8chan. that was their line. 8chan became a place where people drop manifest those before, it had mass shootings, it's where qanon came from.
it became a full-on extremist website. that's a place without a nine. they ended up closing down, and the owner, the guy who started it, he had a come to jesus moment. he is a person who was fought for years now to take down 8chan. so, everybody who things that they want complete, unfettered free speech on then, they meet their line eventually. >> don, one last question for you. and business terms, is there anything we know about the terms of this deal that would restrict elon musk from any particular kinds of changes, or once the onset, and this is private entity, can you do literally anything you wants? >> we don't fully know that yet, but it is his private entity. there are a lot of people at this company who are afraid. there are people in the company, and they are afraid, but just for their jobs, but for the product they built. and the town square they built. they put a lot of work into
this thing. and they're afraid of what's gonna happen to a guy who has never done content moderation before taking over this platform. >> ben collins, covering disinformation, extremism and then turn for nbc news, just an invaluable resource in our company. then, i'm grateful for you every single time you post anything or rate anything for this company, your reporting is about to get even more important in the days ahead. thank you so much for being here tonight. >> thank you,rachel. >> we'll be right back. e right back e right back aire could only imagine enjoying chocolate cake. now, she can have her cake and eat it too. nexium 24hr stops acid before it starts for all-day, all-night protection. can you imagine 24 hours without heartburn? my name is douglas. i'm a writer/director and i'm still working. in the kind of work that i do, you are surrounded by people who are all younger than you. i had to get help somewhere along the line to stay competitive. i discovered prevagen.
i started taking it and after a period of time, my memory improved. it was a game-changer for me. prevagen. healthier brain. better life. the census tells you a lot about people. you could tell on the census records that at very, very young ages, they were cooks, they were farm hands, they were servants. there's auralia, 4-years old. i have learned a lot about the rest of the family, it was really finding gold. one of my grandfathers, didn't even know his birthdate. i figured out the exact year he was born. the census records fill in gaps, it helped me push the door open. hey lily, i need a new wireless plan for my business, but all my employees need something different. oh, we can help with that. okay, imagine this. your mover, rob, he's on the scene and needs a plan with a mobile hotspot. we cut to downtown, your sales rep lisa has to send some files, like asap! so basically i can pick the right plan for each employee.
yeah i should've just led with that. with at&t business. you can pick the best plan for each employee and get the best deals on every smart phone. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ stuff. we love stuff. and there's some really great stuff out there. but i doubt that any of us will look back on our lives and think, "i wish i'd bought an even thinner tv, found a lighter light beer, or had an even smarter smartphone." do you think any of us will look back on our lives and regret the things we didn't buy?
or the places we didn't go? ♪ i'd go the whole wide world ♪ ♪ i'd go the whole wide world ♪ ♪ it's the most wonderful time of the year, ♪ claritin provides non-drowsy symptom relief from over 200 indoor and outdoor allergens, day after day. feel the clarity - and make today the most wonderful time of the year. live claritin clear. >> tech: need to get your windshield fixed? safelite makes it easy. >> tech vo: you can schedule in just a few clicks. and we'll come to you with a replacement you can trust. >> man: looks great. >> tech: that's service on your time. schedule now. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ - [female narrator] they line up by the thousands. each one with a story that breaks your heart. like ravette... every step, brought her pain. their only hope: mercy ships. the largest floating civilian hospital in the world. bringing free surgeries to people who have no other hope. $19 a month will help provide urgently needed surgery
for so many still suffering. so don't wait, call the number on your screen. or donate at mercyships.org. (gong rings) - this is joe. (combative yelling) he used to have bad breath. now, he uses a capful of therabreath fresh breath oral rinse to keep his breath smelling great, all day long. (combative yelling) therabreath, it's a better mouthwash. at walmart, target and other fine stores. discomfort back there? instead of using aloe, therabreath, it's a better mouthwash. or baby wipes, or powders, try the cooling, soothing relief or preparation h. because your derriere deserves expert care. preparation h. get comfortable with it. we are now into the final
minute. the name of the winner will be appearing on your screen and under 60 seconds. ♪ ♪ ♪ emmanuel macron, reelected, president of france. >> yesterday, president emmanuel macron was elected for another round of office. they put it in the polls like it was new year's eve. it wasn't just french people who are weighted with braided breath for that result. more importantly perhaps, his prudent friendly opponent from the neo-fascist party, marie and le pen, not winning that election, not a huge international implications. in particular, for the ukraine war. marie le pen cygnet a desire to get france closer to russia, to effectively pull france out of nato. now, really? but with her losing, that is no
longer on the table. the european country of slovenia also had a national election yesterday, in which their own far-right leader, their prime minister, lost his seat in parliament. that is also good news for the prospect of european united and on ukraine's side in the war right now. u.s. secretary of state and u.s. defense secretary anthony blinken and -- they met with ukrainian president volodymyr zelenskyy, and in addition to announcing further u.s. military aid, blinken and austin also said, the administration plans to send diplomats back into ukraine in the coming days. plans to open the u.s. embassy backup in kyiv within the next few weeks. president biden always made a new nomination for the u.s. to appoint a new u.s. ambassador to ukraine. and then, all this outreach to ukraine tomorrow, the secretary general of the united nations is going to moscow to meet in person with lottery or putin directly. he is gonna be pushing for a cease-fire of some kind in the ukraine war.
also tomorrow, 36 years to the day after the chernobyl soviet nuclear disaster, tomorrow, the international atomic energy association, the un's agency, they are sending a delegation to chernobyl in ukraine to see how much damage russian troops did there when they took it over and eluded the site at the onset of the war. that trip you chernobyl is going to be led by the head of the eye a epa personally. the guy who runs the agency is going to physically be their leading that trip. as russia apparently is trying to open another front in another country as they are pressing on, beyond ukraine now into moldova, further into europe, the world is staying united against him. and in some ways, pushing harder against him. who knows if it matters to putin, but his world is small now and still shrinking fast. watch this space. mptom relief
from over 200 indoor and outdoor allergens, day after day. feel the clarity— and make today the most wonderful time of the year. live claritin clear. >> tech: when you have auto glass damage, trust safelite. in one easy appointment... ♪ pop rock music ♪ >> tech: ...we can replace your windshield and recalibrate your advanced safety system. >> dad: looks great. thanks. >> tech: stay safe with safelite. schedule now. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪
do your eyes bother you? because after all these emails my eyes feel like a combo of stressed, dry and sandpaper.
luckily, there's biotrue hydration boost eye drops for instant moisture. biotrue uses naturally inspired ingredients. and no preservatives. try biotrue one thing to keep an eye on and

tomorrow's news. u.s. defense secretary lloyd austin is expected to host a big meeting tomorrow at the u.s. airbase in germany, the ramstein air base. the topic of the meeting is ukraine. but check out the numbers here. the u.s. has invited more than 40 different countries to participate in this meeting. it's everybody from nato and a lot of non-nato countries as well. again, the subject is ukraine. this is the biden administration trying to hold the whole western world together in support of ukraine and against putin as putin tries to widen that war. again, that's tomorrow in germany, worth keeping an eye on. that will do it for us for tonight. i'll see you again tomorrow night. now, it's time for the last word with lawrence o'donnell. good eveningrachel, and thank you for your reporting about the french election. that's more than i'm gonna do. i'm really having this one sentence later in the hour. and that's because, there are a few things i don't know. i know that -- this is april 25th, and they've got the election