trickery, misrepresentation, to hinder a lawful government function. that is what happened here as well. they were trying to get people in particular, mike pence, not to do the job that was required of them regarding the constitution, and the electoral count. >> george conway, as always, a pleasure. thank you very much. >> thank you. >> that is all in on this one, therachelmaddowshowwith ali velshi starts right now. chris good evening and thank you, we will see you tomorrow. thank you to you at home for joining us at this hour.rachelis on hiatus. i am joining you once again tonight from the city of lviv, ukraine. as the russian invasion grinds through its fifth week, this conflict does not seem to be moving in the way it was supposed to be. it seems at an inflection point. no one quite knows where it is on the other side of this moment.
if it is changed, without before the better or worse? everyone seems to be green on is that ukraine has been able to fight the ground advance to halt almost everywhere. in some cases, ukrainians are gaining some territory. one of the reasons this russian failure has surprised observers in experts because many people assumed that russia had learned from its previous botched military operations. because russia has been in this situation before, less than 30 years ago. when president boris yeltsin sent a column of tanks into neighbor chechnya. the aim was to take checking's capital and take down its bid for independence. it did not go as planned. >> tonight, yeltsin is in serious trouble at home and abroad as a result of his clumsy and so far disaster it's invasion of the breakaway chechnya. we are in the mountainous
province that will not die. >> hundreds of champions headed to the center of grozny to see what was left of the russian army, who are wiped out there trying to capture the presidential palace. they made a tactical mistake of sitting in their fighting vehicles without infantry support. they picked them off from rooftops and street corners. when the three-day battle was over, vehicles were scattered in the square. the chechen celebrated their victory against the mighty russian army with a traditional war. there is no place more symbolic and more important than their presidential palace. if residents do get reinforcements, they will probably try to take it again. these troops, not conscripts, have seen battle for the third time. this 19-year-old was sent from more than 1000 miles away. he had never heard of grozny before his 200 man company reached the rotation in the middle of a battle. he's one of three survivors.
the chechens -- >> we talk now about how much smaller ukraine is then russia, but chechnya was tiny. ukraine has over 40 million people. chechnya had 1 million. they managed to stop a tank column and what about an entire brigade of one of the world's most powerful armies. longtime new york times foreign correspondent was in grozny at the time. she says there was, quote, a stunning silence in russia in the days that followed as the leadership of the stock of what happened in the army, and the army sent in reinforcements. she described what happened next. quote, the russian army unleashed a terrifying onslaught of air and artillery strikes on the city. a modern, european city became a ravage moonscape. i remember how buildings were shown in half, and the contents of people's lives build out of their apartments into the open air. after three months, russian
forces took the city center, and soldiers sat on plastic chairs guarding a wasteland of destroyed buildings, gouged earth and stricken tree stumps. after leveling the place, russian signed a peace deal with chechnya. but russia did not seem to get much out of the deal besides widespread destruction and tens of thousands of deaths. they seem to taxis lee acknowledged that's independence. but that boards johnson tapped vladimir putin to be russia's prime minister. putin decided he would finish the job. >> the people here are still dazed. the surprise attack porter central market. the sudden brutal reign of rockets was unexpected. this home video taken moments after the attack here in the heart of chechnya, where nearby witnesses say four missiles exploded overhead. u.s. officials say they were's
cuts. with the minutes, the dead were everywhere. the chechens claimed 120 died, 400 injured. today, moscow says it is not responsible. by mr. putin said chechnya rebels. the war looks like it is escalating. russia's threatening to double its forces in chechnya to 100 doesn'tshow. >> the assault began christmas day. the russians use multiple missiles. now reports that they are used zinc air explosives that drop huge balls of fire. prime minister vladimir putin reported to boris yeltsin saying the war plan is happening. >> the next year, vladimir putin became russia's president, and he kept at it in chechnya for nine more years. by the time russian forces left for the second time, not only was chechnya reduced to rubble once again, but putin had installed his own puppet leader there who has now ruled
chechnya for over 15 years with the tories cruelty. he currently has chechen forces fighting for russia in ukraine. remember yesterday, when russia's chief negotiator of the peace talks in his temple said russia would take steps to this escalate military operations around ukraine's capital. today, putin's handpicked death squad that controls chechnya put out this video when he says russia's negotiator was wrong. russia will make no concession. putin will not stop. russian forces will be going into kyiv in a few days. look, this guy may not know what he's talking about, but it is a reminder for vladimir putin that his decade and a half of grinding war in chechnya was not to have a better military strategy. if you reduce a place to rubble, you get to install your most
loyal, ruthless henchmen to run it, someone who will be your biggest cheerleader in an exhibition. everyone suspicion is that putin may be using these peace talks to buy time and regroup, and launch a new offensive. despite russia's claims that they will de-escalate around kyiv and chernihiv, this was chernihiv this morning. a market building destroyed by russian strikes overnight, eerily similar to that market attack in grozny 23 years ago. thankfully, there were no reports of casualties today. in kyiv, the mayor also said shelling one-off throughout the night. the russians apparent non de-escalation around kyiv supposedly so they can focus their forces on ukraine's east. but even there where russian bomber has devastated cities, russian forces are being put pushed back. richard engel filed this report outside kharkiv. >> leaving the city of kharkiv
today, it does not take long to reach the front lines. russian troops destroyed these cars while trying to invade the city. in the fields overlooking the highway, we followed ukrainian troops to see what u.s. officials tell nbc news, russian generals are afraid toshowthe president. the russian military is losing ground. they are suffering too many losses to hide. this is a russian camp. you can see all of their weapons here and they were bombed. there are still somebodies in this area. they left a lot of their equipment behind after what appears to be a devastating attack on their position. it seems the russians here never knew what hit them. their uniforms latest run on the ground, ukrainian troops help themselves to abandon weapons. andre, a sniper who do not want toshowhis face, said 120
russian soldiers were at this position, and that ukrainians took dozens captive. other still lay where they fell. he counted 12 bodies. russia never expected its invasion to be stopped in its tracks. knocking out this position also allowed ukrainian troops to recapture today the nearby village from russian soldiers. this family was enjoying their new freedom. the bombings were horrible. the airstrikes for the worse, says nadia. they showed me where they had been hiding all this time without power. i >> they stayed down in this cellar for the last 27 days. is the worse over? >> i hope our soldiers tame this beast. the russian president is the ranged. i wish his kids would have to go through this, maybe ten it would be different. >> his granddaughter spends her time drawing on the walls,
images of happier days. it was my therapy to keep calm she says. wise words from a girl that just turned a. today, she was drawing with her chalk outside. down the road, 88-year-old woman was sitting by herself, disoriented and frightened. i am so afraid, my whole body is shaking, and nights covered myself with a blanket, she says. mostly, she wanted comfort. she says she lit the roadwork too, and doesn't have the strength to go through it all again. >> nbc news richard angle with that remarkable recording from kharkiv. this feels like an inflection point in this conflict. putin's ground forces in the ground backfoot. they're offering peace talks. the question is how vladimir putin plans to use his opportunity. this is only week five. putin spent years pummeling
chechnya into rubble. today president biden spoke with ukrainian president zelenskyy, they talk for nearly an hour. in a new video tonight, so lucky says that when he spoke biden, i stressed that right now is the tipping point. right now is to give a hand to ukraine, toshowthe muddiness of the democratic world. while the ukrainian leader was soliciting more military aid from president biden, and all the mother legation of members of parliament was in washington for meetings with u.s. lawmakers like this one with house speaker nancy pelosi. they are in d.c. asking for more sanctions and weaponry to boost ukraine's defenses. their very presence is a reminder at what is at stake. yesterday as the ukrainian delegation asked for that desperately needed aid, an arid siren alerted from one of their cell phones. as it blared, one of the ukrainian lawmakers said, quote, i need you all to hear the. one of those ukrainian
lawmakers, joins me from washington. thank you for taking time to be here. the last i saw you was on friday in warsaw. you were on your way. you have been meeting now with his lawmakers, including the house speaker nancy pelosi. what kind of response are you getting? >> when i was watching this piece, i need to give this a motion, there was an eight-year-old girl drawing with chalk. i remember my daughter, who is eight years old, and she is in ukraine right now, waiting for me to come with some news saying that america will help us. that is basically the question that i have been asked from everyone. we did send our message is about the weapons, about the sanctions, about his financial support, and what we are
thankful of, we got the news from president biden saying that there will be half a billion dollars sent to ukrainian budgets. we are getting there. weapons will be satisfying when they are on the ground. it can't be on the table. >> let's talk about the negotiations that are underway. they just ended in instant poll. there are a lot of doubt from people i am speaking inside the country that these negotiations are meaningful. the russian side can be trusted. they say they are pulling back from kyiv and other places, but that has not turned out to be true. why is your sense of whether these are meaningful negotiations, or whether they should continue? >> first, we do not believe putin. putin has done everything before violating's own words. what we believe in is our army,
the ukrainian army and our soldiers. we basically think that we need a victory on the battlefield. and then we can drag the civilized world putin into the negotiation table. we do need reparations to restore ukraine. winning on the battlefield is essential. that is why we have been asking for battle jets, air defense system, artillery, tanks, there's a big was sent to the pentagon. we actually asked members of congress, the house of representatives and the senate to control how this list is going. how we will get those weapons. >> one of the things that you said to me in warsaw that struck me is that you, like
every other ukrainian i spoke to, has decided that this will end and that ukraine will sustain itself. you want the world to start talking about what happens next. you actually said to me that it will need something that looks like a martial plan to rebuild ukraine. are you at the point to start having that conversation with people or is it poorly-right now because as you said, ukraine is the one of the benefit first? >> we do start this conversation and parallel having conversations with international treatment for putin and all this military generals who have been giving the orders to bump cities. that will be a separate track as well. yes, we will need a new martial plan for ukraine. i am sure the united states will take a leading role in this. hey, there is so much russian frozen money around the world from the central bank.
we should think about the way to use to restore ukraine. the first thing, we need to kick out russians from our country. there cannot be any negotiations when somebody puts a gun to your head. >> thank you for joining us. i understand that you are continuing your travels and your efforts to get the world on her side. she is a member of the ukrainian parliament. the white house says today that it thinks vladimir putin is not being told the whole truth by his own advisers because they are scared of him. how do you negotiate with somebody like that, someone you know as she just told us, you can trust. , yo can trust. for people living with h-i-v, keep being you. and ask your doctor about biktarvy. biktarvy is a complete, one-pill,
once-a-day treatment used for h-i-v in certain adults. it's not a cure, but with one small pill, biktarvy fights h-i-v to help you get to and stay undetectable. that's when the amount of virus is so low it cannot be measured by a lab test. research shows people who take h-i-v treatment every day and get to and stay undetectable can no longer transmit h-i-v through sex. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects include a buildup of lactic acid and liver problems. do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your doctor about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b, do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your doctor. common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache. if you're living with hiv, keep loving who you are. and ask your doctor if biktarvy is right for you. [zoom call] ...pivot... work bye. vacation hi! book with priceline. 'cause when you save more, you can “no way!” more. no wayyyy. no waaayyy!
no way! [phone ringing] hm. no way! no way! priceline. every trip is a big deal. two days a peace talks in


istanbul between russia and ukrainian negotiators and in today with no breakthrough. diplomatic efforts remain ongoing. yesterday, russia announced it would scale back its military presence around kyiv and chernihiv, a city north of kyiv, in order to, quote, boost mutual trust, and quote. the spot that pledge, russia continued to launch attacks against the two cities. locals officials in chernihiv, rachelle civilian infrastructure in the city. sky news filed this report on that attack and others today. >> a market building small bird in chernihiv. russia insists that it is scaling back its offensive in this part of ukraine, but clearly not here. to the east in kharkiv, ukrainians claim russians are now on the back foot. russian forces have failed -- they have now been --
yet more evidence of war crimes committed by russia. a direct hit on a civilian residential building. more satellite pictures are the devastated city of mariupol, before and after russia savage bombardment. in peace talks, there has been some progress. the fear is that russia is using the peace talks and its own claims to reduce its tax as cover to reality and regroup for a renewed offensive. >> according to the pentagon, fewer than 20% of russian forces deployed around kyiv have been repositioned. today, the biden administration the classified intelligence that indicates that putin's generals are not being honest with him about the status of the invasion. one white house advisor says, quote, we believe that putin is being misinformed by his advisers about how badly the russian military is performing because his senior advisers are too afraid to tell him the truth, and quote,.
that intelligence assessment was addressed today by pentagon spokesperson john kirby and the secretary of state anthony blinken. >> if mr. putin is misinformed or uninformed about what is going on inside ukraine, it is his military, it is his war, he chose it. the fact that he may not have all the contacts, that he may not fully understand the degree to which his forces are failing in ukraine, that is discomforting. >> one of these achilles heels of these autocracies is that you don't have people in the systems that speak truth to power or have the ability to speak truth to power. i think that is something we are seeing in russia. >> joining me now is a professor of history at the new york university and author of strongmen, mussolini to the president. professor, thank you for being with us tonight. i wanted to talk to you and get
your response to the u.s. intelligence today that putin officials are lying to him about the progress of the war. i want to understand from you, given that he is an autocrat and he is powerful and russia, this is some plausible that he does not have the latest or most accurate battlefield intelligence? >> in some ways, yes, because you never want to tell an autocrat bad news. the golden rule of autocrats is to blame others for your own mistakes. and that tells him that his war is miscalculated will probably be fired. honestly, putin has shown from the very beginning of this ill conceived war that he was not interested in input. that is typical of autocrats to. we know from intelligence that he did not consult many military advisers. the decision-making circle is
very small. he did not game out the war with his military advisers. nor did he cancel the adequate economic advisers for contingency plans for sanctions. this is typical of the isolation and hubris and paranoia, this kind of toxic mix that somebody like putin gets into after 22 years of power. you see the results that he does not want, or does not have, the correct intelligence to make informed decisions. >> here in lviv, do and in the conversation i just had, ukrainians did not seem to think that they can trust vladimir putin. that these negotiations can be fruitful. how does a country, leader, or delegation negotiate with somebody like putin was no history of negotiating in good
faith and has broken treaties? >> as the parliamentarian said, you do not negotiate with somebody that has a gun to your head. when i heard the kremlin said they were going to scale back because they wanted to have a better relationship of mutual trust, nobody believes that. they are not interested in having trust, they are interested in annihilating ukraine. for me, the more important negotiations are with ukraine and the allies so that they can get what they need to win this war. also, to double down on putin toshowhim that escalating bad faith and violence will be met with escalating consequences for him. >> are there any examples that you can remember in history
where an expansionist dictator like vladimir putin today has a diplomatic terms without being forced to do some militarily? >> they can go one of two ways. they can get into a nihilist mood, this was hitler. they do not care about their own people, so they can get in a mode where they say that everyone should go down. they can also, however, want to do something to save face. this is unlikely but because vladimir putin has this total media crack down right now, he could do something to save face like saying, okay, ukraine has accepted permanent neutrality. he could present that as a win. whether that would happen, i do not know. but that could be one out for
him. but there is no other off-ramp. he needs to just withdraw. if he does that, he will be politically vulnerable. because even if he does a face saving maneuver, all of the elites would know that this was a move dictated by weakness. >> on the other side for volodymyr zelenskyy, who by all accounts, has done a remarkable job, opposition parties in this country have all come together and united on this particular front. what is the off ramp for zelenskyy? right now, what ukrainians would like is everything to go back to normal and for the russians to get out the country? at the moment, but does not seem to be on the table. >> no, until 2014, ukrainians were not interested in joining nato.
in subsequent years, as the threat of russia has gotten more manifested, they have become much more interested. still, it is only 50% of the population. for zelenskyy conceding permanent neutrality, it would probably be acceptable. it is not just the destruction of ukraine, there is also a looming food crisis. he has already acquitted himself of the moral high ground. ukraine has been an inspirational model for the world for its defense. showing that you can defeat the supposedly fearsome russian military machine that has been created by corruption is already a huge win. >> we appreciate your analysis and great grasp of history in these important times. i wouldn't have hoped that i
would have to rely on you for the history that you cover these days. she is a professor of history at the new york university and the author of the strange irrelevant book, called strongmen, mussolini to the president. one thing that is very different about this war in ukraine is that it is not happening on the ground, it is happening in cyberspace. it is the world's first real cyber war. coming up next, we will talk with one of the ukrainian officials in charge of winning that part of the war. that part of the war [norm] and we live in columbia, missouri. we do consulting, but we also write. [szasz] we take care of ourselves constantly; it's important. we walk three to five times a week, a couple miles at a time. - we've both been taking prevagen for a little more than 11 years now. after about 30 days of taking it, we noticed clarity that we didn't notice before. - it's still helping me. i still notice a difference. prevagen. healthier brain. better life.

♪ it's the most wonderful time of the year, ♪ i still notice a difference. ♪ with the kids jingle belling ♪ ♪ and everyone telling you'll be of good cheer ♪ it's spring! claritin provides non-drowsy symptom relief from over 200 indoor and outdoor allergens, day after day. ♪ oh the most wonderful time ♪ feel the clarity - and make today the most wonderful time of the year. live claritin clear. inner voice (design studio owner): i'm over here waiting... ... looking intensely for a print that i never actually printed... ... so i don't have to deal with that terrifying pile of invoices. intuit quickbooks helps you easily send your first invoice in 3 steps. simple. >> ever since arriving in lviv


i have carried in my pocket one of the most powerful tools the ukrainian government has developed so far in this war. this is the ukrainian government aerates iran app. it might seem redundant in a city where traditional area sirens blare regularly. but most of ukraine is not urban. rural areas are much less likely to have loud sirens that residents in far flung areas can hear. anyone with a phone can download the ukrainian government serrated siren up. the app is useful even here with traditional arid silence, which might not be able to hear if you are in a bomb shelter, or through heavy plated windows. that is just one of the outside the ukrainian government, and the ukrainian tech industry have rolled out at lightning speed to help ukrainians on this war. this was the ukrainians governments one stop shop of an up before the war.
it is called the, which means action. you can it was used for things like getting traffic tickets, getting covid results, where did donate blood, apply for financial assistance, and even submit evidence of human rights violations. whether or not you have the, obvious cranium government has built a chatbot which is a robot that can text with users on social media sites like telegram, instagram, and facebook, where any ukrainian citizen can directly report the location of russian troops. the chatbot confirms the information lines up with the users geolocation, and other phone data, and passes it immediately put the ukrainian military. alongside the traditional war that ukraine is fighting, they are fighting one of the world's first real cyber wars. and the front lines of that warm and by the ukrainian ministry of digital transformation. would at one point was a bureaucratic agency for bringing ukraine into the 21st century is now a key component
of ukraine's military, and its defense against russia. in addition to building apps, the ministry has been writing letters, and making public statements to try to get international support and cyberspace. ukraine's minister of digital transformation convinced tesla ceo elon musk over tests to send thousands of satellites over to ukraine to help them keep the internet online. the ministry also convinced apple to pause all of its product sales in russia, in addition, the ministry has recorded a liberal ip army to stave off russian cyberattacks and launch cyber offensives of its own. a lot of the elements of the war in ukraine are similar to other words in the past, but this isn't, this is new. ukraine's minister of digital transformation has described this new reality as world cyber war one. so what does that look like? >> joining us now is the ukrainian deputy minister of digital transformation. thank you for making time to be
with us tonight. >> hello, pleased to be here. >> i want to start by asking you some very basic things about this. how do you manage to keep the internet up and running despite all of the russian attacks. >> well, you know, i think the reason behind this is in the first place, they have this vision to invade kyiv and three days. they did not want to touch any of the communication, or infrastructure, so the gave us some time to regroup, and defend the critical parts of it. we have a number of services, government authorities that are in charge of this. one of them in major, it is called special communication authority, that basically take charge for cybersecurity, and communication inside the country. so, after a week or two, they
realize that they are not going to get this so quickly, and this started to disrupt the -- so we were ready, and right now, most of the territory of ukraine, excluding war zones of course, communication is stable. >> the ministry for which he worked, the ministry of digital transformation was not actually an agency built for war. it is a bureaucratic agency that is no helping modernize ukraine. how has this transition to becoming a large part of ukraine's military response been for you? >> because we have to act according to the realities. indeed, we completely shifted our focus from what we were doing before the war. right now, our focus is digital diplomacy, or someone called this digital blockade, when we really appeal to hundreds and thousands of companies.
mostly tech companies. we also take care of cyber defense of the country, and cyber offense. we still maintain government services which you mentioned before, the government service that was installed, almost 50 million users. this app is very popular in ukraine. so you can -- again, there were new features added like you can get government help with one click in your app if you are from a war zone. you mentioned before this, an app that would alert people, and right now we also added a functionality so you can make your -- you can apply it for reconstruction of your damaged property and get help from the government to restore your property, which were destroyed by russian troops. >> i am amazed at this chatbot
that you have developed so that civilians anywhere in the country can report the locations of russian troops. help us understand how you are able to confirm those reports, and how hopeful that tip line has been? >> that is a great question. the thing is, the app which was installed has ideally authorization. so it is bulletproof authorization made on to factor -- it is very palpable. we use the authorization in this check box. we make sure that there are no russians or spies infiltrating. so it is an essential part of the chat bought on the first page. >> let me ask you about the
speculation at the beginning of this war that russia would launch a large-scale cyberattack against ukraine, and perhaps anyone who helped ukraine. that does not seem to have happened. why do you think up? >> who said they didn't? they actually did. they instantly were attacking us with a lot of -- we track a lot of incidents. but it appeared that their cyber offense machine, or their cyber offense -- is not so powerful as it was imagined by some experts before the wars. so they did not really penetrate any critical part of our digital infrastructure. but they tried, the instantly tried. >> let's talk about the recruitment work that your ministry is doing. either crowdsourcing money for ukraine's military online, and actually recruiting for the military.
>> so, after two days of war we realized that the national bank of ukraine was severely limited for commercial banks and regular transfers, especially abroad. so, we decided to use crypto in order to fund-raise. this was really hectic, but we managed to partner with the private group exchange from ukraine, and they helped us establish a security perimeter so we could exchange mechanisms. we announced that basically, we were ready to get the nations bitcoin -- and it was beyond our expectations. the world community started to donate millions of dollars. so we managed to raise around $7 million in crypto. this is really what is helping
our army. it was really helpful during the first day of the war, where payments in dollars, and euro were not so available like they are available right now. >> that is a fascinating discussion. we appreciate you having it with us this evening. alex of the ukrainian deputy minister of digital transformation. thank you for making time to be with us tonight. still ahead here tonight, the view from inside ukraine as people here in lviv occupy a space somewhere between war, and peace. that is next. at is next sharp, stabbing pains, or an intense burning sensation. what is this nightmare? it's how some people describe... shingles. a painful, blistering rash that could interrupt your life for weeks. forget social events and weekend getaways. if you've had chickenpox, the virus that causes shingles is already inside of you.
if you're 50 years or older ask your doctor or pharmacist about shingles. we need to reduce plastic waste in the environment. that's why at america's beverage companies, our bottles are made to be re-made. not all plastic is the same. we're carefully designing our bottles to be 100% recyclable, including the caps. they're collected and separated from other plastics, so they can be turned back into material that we use to make new bottles. that completes the circle and reduces plastic waste. please help us get every bottle back. and it's easier than ever to get your projects done right. with angi, you can connect with and see ratings and reviews. and when you book and pay throug you're covered by our happiness check out angi.com today. angi... and done.


before i got aura, twenty-four of my online accounts were hacked! he uses the same password for everything. i didn't want to deal with it. but aura digital security just dealt with it. what were we worried about again? shopping on public wifi is sketchy. but with aura digital security, my devices are protected in like 3 minutes. it's time to protect your life online with aura's all-in-one digital security. try for free today at aura.com what was that password anyway? ew. says the russian invasion of ukraine began, lviv has been a place for refugees fleeing the more battle scarred places of the country. more had fled westward to lviv,
which is the logical way point towards the pollen. the city is doing its best to help to this place. ali or today, i took a stroll around lviv, my tour guide was deputy mayor. right as we set out came the air raid sirens. >> thank you for taking time to talk to us. this happens half a dozen times a day? >> maybe not half a dozen, but it happens quite often. >> what goes through your mind when it happens? >> danger, threat, you have to be with their close ones, your family, your tickets and make sure your wife is safe and look for shelter. >> does your family have a plan? do they know to do in this happens? >> absolutely, it has been happening like that every day since the outset of this war. they should understand that we need to be safe it is not as
bad as the bombardments in mariupol or even in kyiv. but still after the recent talks, i think people are becoming more careful. let's say, less calm when it happens. people in the city, it is very cosmopolitan, people looked at their coffee outside. people are moving more quickly might be trying to cease out there. some are continuing on with their daily life. explain that psychology. >> i think the life changed for all the people. there is not a single man or woman or family who is not affected by this war. some people, part of the family
split, because the women and children have left. there are more than 4 million people that have fled ukraine. many are staying. some are coming back. they have a normal and calm life outside ukraine. but also members of the ukrainian diaspora are standing together would ukraine's armed forces to fight for our independence and the freedom of all of us, not only ukrainians before europeans and americans, for all the countries. their families that lost loved ones, parents that lost children, every day in lviv, you have funerals. the same peters cathedral, the
man normally attends these funerals. you see the eyes of the parents of the children that died. there is zero, but there are also proud. there is huge dignity for their children that fought to defend their country. >> as we walk around the city and talk to people, some of them are from lviv. some are from kyiv or other places. they come here because they think it's safer. some people from lviv have gone further west, even to poland are hungry. >> lviv is one of the largest cities in ukraine. about 1 million population. according to the un refugee statistics, you have more than 200,000 internally displaced people currently residing in lviv. the city is trying to support to our refugee registration welcome centers.
there are people from all over ukraine. many of them fleeing the war zones in mariupol, chernihiv. many people from lviv hosts the refugees. i am not the exception. i had a person from chernihiv who left with her child further west. she is safe and secure. our main objective is that cities that all of their basic needs are supplied to. we do it using our own resources and also with international aid and organizations. you can see, even during the alarm, there is no panic, there is no one asking for something on the streets. it is also good that businesses are reopening. businesses are very welcoming
and ready to help anytime. >> the deputy mayor said that he was glad that businesses were reopening. that is a reminder that in peacetime, his role in the city government of lviv, was to promote business. who knows when or if he will get back tuesday job, but here is hoping. coming up next, we will take a 250 mile view of the conflict as adversaries on terraform or try to remain friends on space. that is next . that is next [yawn] bro trip! if you book with priceline, you'll save more, so you can “broooo” more. [impressed] broooooo. broooo!!!! broooo!!!! broooo!!!! [in unison] brooooooooo!!!! [splash] [disappointed] broooo... good thing you saved on the trip! priceline. every trip is a big deal. late last night, three men said



goodbye to fellow crew members of the international space station and made their way into a tiny capsule for their return to earth, 250 miles below. earlier today, the three men made safely back to the ground, plopping down in a big pop of gust in the kazakhstan desert. inside the capsule were two
russian cosmonauts and one american astronaut, marc bender hide. all three men were extracted safely. at their medical testing, they went their separate ways, heading back to their home nations. images like these of americans and russians working together and depending on each other's how space exploration is posed to work. 250 miles above earth, national boundaries are supposed to disappear along with terrestrial politics. up there, it is about mutual dependence. the politics theater into intervene earlier this month at the u.s. started imposing sanctions on russia for invading ukraine. the head of russia's base agency warned that sanctions against russia could disrupt our ability to keep the iss up in orbit and also stop supplying rocket engines to u.s. aerospace suppliers. they had still not signed on to an agreement to expand the life of the space station passed 2024. china is building its own space
station and checked thing its ties with russian space. while war riches over terror former, orbit is considered neutral territory, for now. but watch a space, literally. that does it for us tonight. it is time now for the last word with lawrence o'donnell. good evening, my friend. >> ali, let's hope that is not the last joint space mission between russia and united states. but something that they can be savage. >> let's hope, lawrence, enjoy yourshowtonight. >> thank you. my first guest tonight, bob woodward, force mitch mcconnell to do something that he had never done. was people that have served and united states senate had never done what mitch mcconnell did today. today mitch mcconnell for the first time in his 37 years in the senate went to the floor to give a speech pleading with the house and senate not to