body. the epa and fda approved. >> a missed that will clean you from covid? that reminded us of something. >> then i see the disinfectant, that knocks it out in a minute. is there a way we can do something like that? by injection inside or -- they cleaning? >> and that is the leader who herschel walker wants to model himself after. and on that very note, i wish you all a very good and very safe and healthy missed free night. from all of our colleagues across the networks of nbc news, thanks for staying up late with us. i will see you at the end of tomorrow. e end of tomorrow happy to have you here, you are getting more of me than you bargained for this. which i am sorry. if everything goes as planned, which honestly, is basically never in the news business.
but you can't break or plans unless you make them in the first place, if all goes as planned, ha. i will be on tonight, hosting therachelmaddow, so answer mounted as well, at the usual time 90 am eastern. hosting therachelmaddowshow, tuesday, night tonight, wednesday night tomorrow, and then thursday night, i will be here as well. the all-star team of msnbc colleagues, because thursday night we expect to be doing another primetime recap of the january 6th hearing that is going to happen during the work day on thursday this week. so, we'll see, right? hi tonight, hi tomorrow night as well, my usual 9 pm eastern time and that big special coverage starting at 8 pm eastern on thursday night. after the next january 6th hearing. that is the plan. and the only reason we make plans is so there is something to break when the news gods inevitably throw us ten curveballs at once, and all the plans had to be thrown out the window. we will see how it actually works out if that is the plan.
and i'm glad to be here, there is a lot going on a lot to be watching tonight. as my friend chris hayes was just covering on hisshow, we've got eyes on this surprise development on possible gun safety reforms. last week i think the whole country was pretty skeptical and it was announced that democrats led by senator chris murphy, had persuaded enough republican senators, that they might potentially be able to pass a modest package of gun reforms. not only through the house but through the senate i mean, over this last generation, and not just become headlock hard-liners, not just absolutist, but indeed sort of maximalist when it comes to the policy issue of how many guns are to be on the streets in this country. and what kinds of guns off to have access to. i mean, i don't know why this has stuck with me and it has not stuck with anyone else. i'm going to keep saying it and hope it sticks with someone else someday. do you remember -- i think we ought to remember
what the republicans did first, the last time they won full control of the u.s. government. this was january 2017. so, it's after trump won the white house and republicans win control of the house in the senate. they've got control of all those branches of government. the very first substantive thing they did, the very first real action republicans took in congress was, what? they changed -- they changed gun laws to literally, i kid you not, to literally make it easier for people to obtain firearms if they had been formally adjudicated to be mentally ill. seriously, that was the first substantive thing that republicans did the last time they got full control of the government. they set to work on the grave problem that people formally adjudicated to be mentally ill would not having an easy enough time getting access to guns. so, they fixed that as their first order of business, as soon as they got power. given that recent history, i
think it's understandable that there was considerable skepticism all across the country, about the idea that ten republican senators and all the democratic senators would agree on some package of gun related reforms, that they would all agree should pass. that said, lo and behold, maybe we skeptics were wrong. today, the leader of the republicans in the senate, senator mitch mcconnell crawled out of his shell. and said he too supports this modest package of gun reforms, which would imply that it is not going to be just ten republicans that support it, if their leader is supporting it. that means it could be a whole bunch of them, certainly enough to get it passed. we have all been burned too many times on this issue to actually believe this before we see it in action. but honestly, this announcement today, by the republican senate leader, mitch mcconnell, it's not nothing. after decades of nothing from
republicans, as the gun massacres have just piled up, maybe this new announcement from the republican side in the senate -- maybe this isn't exactly nothing? but we shall see, when it comes time to actually vote on something. caveat emptor, buyer beware, but we shall see. this may be the first not nothing we've had in decades. we've also got eyes tonight on primary races. some interesting ones are happening tonight in maine, nevada, north dakota and south carolina. there is also really confusing special election for congressional seat in texas tonight. but just for somebody to hold that seat until january in and that seat will be up for a different kind of contest, the texas special elections tonight is a very twisty cone of soft ice cream. in terms of understanding the immediate implications of how that special election is going to go. but there are primaries in these other four states --
nevada, south carolina, maine, north dakota. most of the focus tonight has been on south dakota. in south carolina there to incumbent republican members of congress who are facing republican primary challengers backed by former president trump. so, that's worth watching, for sure, in terms of the overall balance of power in the house, ultimately, but also the power of trumpism, not going away, in the republican party. they are going to get results from the races, from the great steve kornacki, as he's monitoring those results for us tonight from his patented big board. steve, we will see you in just a few minutes. speaking of the former president and his influence over the modern republican party, today, you should know, is the former president s birthday, donald trump's turns 76 years old today. as the world's worst birthday president for a former president, the new york state court system informed former president trump and his son don
and his daughter invanka that they all three mustshowup and give sworn testimony in a civil case that is being pursued against the trump family business by new york's attorney general, tish james. former president trump and his family had been pushing very hard to avoid having to personally testify in this case. you might remember when eric trump, the other son, the blond one, was compelled to testify in this same case last fall, that the new york attorney general says that eric trump, in that deposition, pled the fifth. he invoked his fifth amendment rights against self incrimination more than 500 times in response to more than 500 different questions. he took the fifth. so, yeah, as of today, per the new york state courts, the eldest trump son, not the blond one, and ivanka and former president trump himself, they are all going to have to give sworn testimony nestle case next month. if you want to set your alarm for the inevitable public meltdown as that testimony approaches --
right now it's on the books for july 15th. so, one month from tomorrow. happy birthday, see you in court. and it's interesting, thinking about sworn depositions from the former president and more of his kids, in that case, which really does threaten the existence of the trump family business. one of the things that just keeps becoming newly relevant, over and over again, about the former president, about this question of whether he will be president again, his continuing hold on the republican party, his efforts to transform that party into an anti democracy sort of authoritarian force. the question of whether he will face state criminal charges in georgia or federal criminal charges. indeed, the question of whether he may lose his family business in the civil fraud case in new york, the question of whether he will succeed in overturning future u.s. elections the way he tried to overturn the last one. on and on and on. as we continue to confront all these questions, one of the things that seems, i think,
small at the start, of our understanding of him as a public figure -- but it just newly keeps becoming relevant, for all these important questions about the future of our country, there is this fact that we keep coming back around to. which is that trump likes weird lawyers. he likes lawyers who put a little extra hot sauce on everything they do, he likes weird lawyers who do their jobs, not like normal lawyers. of course, we have a real focus on that at the moment, with rudy giuliani, and a whole day of news coverage today as to whether or not mr. giuliani is even still denying that he was ostentatiously drunk when he reportedly advised president trump to go out and declare victory on election night even though trump had lost. mr. giuliani has had law
license suspended in new york. he may be about to lose his law license in washington d. c. as well. mr. giuliani is trump's kind of lawyer. but he is not an outlier in terms of the kind of lawyer that trump chooses. this is a former president who is in more legal trouble than any american president has ever been before, by a factor of 10,000. but he likes lawyers like rudy giuliani. he likes consistently lawyers who approach their work, say, like this -- >> so, i'm warning you, tread very bleep lightly. because when i'm going to do to you is going to be bleep disgusting. do you understand me? don't think you can hide behind your pant because it's not going to happen. >> even before rudy giuliani became the highest profile trump lawyer in the country, that was longtime trump lawyer michael cohen, who of course was convicted of multiple felonies, who has since had a 180 degree turnover ground in his life. he's now diametrically opposed to all things donald trump. he has, in fact, apologized for
threatening that reporter. but what i am going to do to you is going to be effing discusting? right? when he was working for donald trump, that's how we talk to reporters. that's what trump was looking for from his lawyers. here's another gem from that crowd. >> his attorney, john dowd, has promised to appeal those convictions. this is the video i was talking about. cnbc caught up with mr. doud a short time ago. >> would you like to comment to cnbc? >> get the bleep out of here. that's what i've got for cnbc. >> wow! >> that's what i got for cnbc, yeah, take that! rudy giuliani, now, with michael cohen before him, he got a [inaudible] effing disgusting. that's the guy who trump chose to be his lawyer for the mueller investigation, you might remember. he also hired this gentlemen to
be one of his lawyers at his first impeachment. this was the trump lawyer who went to the floor of the house and made the argument out loud that trump shouldn't be impeached, obama should be impeached. this is the lawyer who made the argument that president obama is the real traitor and he should be impeached, not trump. that was his defense of trump in 2020, impeach obama, four years after president obama had left office, which i am sure trump thought was awesome. he likes his lawyers with extra hot sauce, he actually hired that guy away from his law firm after the impeachment, he liked him so much. he brought him on as a trump white house lawyer. because that's what he likes as a lawyer. it turns out, though, that if you have really -- tastes in terms of what he wants from a lawyer -- you want the guy with a hair dye running down his head, somebody else threatening to do something effing disgusting to a reporter, running an impeach obama campaign from the floor of the house, four years after obama was out of office, while you are being impeached.
if that is your taste in lawyers, well, you are also going to have to live with that being the character of the lawyers that you are up against when they all, inevitably, turn against you, just like everyone has who has ever worked with you or for you in any capacity. and so that, right now, is why we got these particularly pungent, slashing criticisms from one of trump's kind of lawyers, from that man, eric herschmann, who he brought into the trump white house after his particularly bombastic performance as a trump impeachment defense lawyer. >> it was a combination of italians, germans, different things that had been floating around as to who was involved. hugo chavez in the venezuelans, he has an affidavit from someone that says that he wrote a software, and [inaudible] something from the philippines. it's just all over the radar. i thought the dominion stuff was -- i never saw any evidence
whatsoever to sustain those allegations. with a we're proposing, i, thought was nuts. and i thought that the theory was also completely nuts. >> that's trump white house lawyer, eric herschmann, part of his deposition testimony of the january 6th investigation. you can tell he's a trump lawyer because he's got a baseball bat behind him that says justice on it. that's exactly the kind of hot sauce that trump likes and a lawyer, right? but in this case, he's not defending trump anymore. he's not saying, impeach trump, no, go back in time an impeach obama! this time -- this time, he is taking apart what he depicts to the january 6th investigators as just the stupidity of his characterization, of some of the farfetched claims of supposed fraud that the president wanted to use as an excuse for overthrowing the u. s. government. that testimony that we just saw -- that i just played here moments ago, we saw that testimony from him before today. but then this evening the january 6th investigators
released a new taped statement from republican vice chair liz cheney. and she included at the end of her statement something else from trump lawyer eric herschmann, to get us ready for what's coming next from the investigations next trial. >> in our next hearing on thursday, the select committee will examine president trump's relentless effort on january six, and in the days beforehand, to pressure vice president pence to refuse to count lawful electoral votes. as a federal judge, he's indicated, this likely violated to federal criminal statutes. president trump had no factual basis for what he was doing. and he had been told it was illegal. despite this, president trump plotted with a lawyer named john eastman. and others to overturn the outcome of the election on january 6th. to give you a sense of the gravity of these issues, here is a clip of one of president trump's own white house lawyers,
eric herschmann, who talks to mr. eastman the day after january six. >> it was the day after, eastman, i don't remember, he called me, or he texted me, called me, wanted to talk with me. he said he couldn't reach others. and he started to ask me about something dealing with georgia, preserving something. potentially for appeal. and i said to him, are you out of your effing mind? i said, i don't only want to hear two words coming out of your mouth from now on. orderly transition.
i dont want to hear any of you afterwards coming out of your mouth no matter what's, other than orderly transition, repeat those words to me. eventually he said, orderly transition. i said, good john. now i'm gonna give you the best free legal advice you are ever getting in your life. get a great effing criminal defense lawyer, you are going to need it. and then i hung up on him. >> that was released tonight by the january 6th investigation. get a great effing criminal defense lawyer, you are gonna need it, and then i hung up on him. this is the best free legal advice you are ever getting in your life. note to self, you like to hire bombastic lawyers who talk like this, when they defend you? well they are also gonna talk like that when they decide they are not gonna defend you anymore because now they've come to believe you are part of a criminal enterprise, and they're willing to testify about that under oath. the substance of what mr. herschmann is sort of blustering at here though, with the bat over his shoulder to
send home the points, the substance of what he's blustering at is a real thing. john eastman was another of this illustrious pantheon of trump lawyers, he really knows how to pick them. eastman has been litigating in federal courts, against subpoenas that he has received from the january six investigation. he has said in his litigation that he was acting as an attorney, to president trump. and there is such a thing as attorney client privilege, that's a real thing, it says prosecutors basically aren't allowed to see communication that happens between a person and their lawyer. a person is entitled between confidential legal advice that you can't keep secret from the government even in the face of a subpoena. that said, the attorney client privilege is not limitless. and in the case of trump and this lawyer john eastman, in the litigation where eastman is trying to keep his communications and a document secrets. keep them away from investigators. a federal judge has now ruled twice in recent weeks. that eastman has to hand over these communications and documents over to the investigation.
even though he was acting as trump lawyer. even though there is such a thing as attorney client privilege, you can't use it to cover up a crime. you can't use it to keep secret the evidence that a lawyer and a client were actually planning crimes together. and a judge has ruled already that trump and eastman were making forth with the crimming. [laughs] and therefore eastman has to hand over his documents and communications because crime. because there is a crime fraud exception to the attorney client privilege, the judge believes that that is likely implicated in this case. that they were plotting a crime together, and therefore his documents and communications have to be handed over to the investigation. and that is a very substantive thing for a federal judge to conclude. and that is why, eric herschmann, a classic trump lawyer language told the other
trump lawyer john eastman, that he was gonna give him the best free legal advice wherever getting in your life, get a great stepping criminal defense lawyer, you are gonna need. it then hung up. that is why you are getting that between trump lawyers. and that also, what liz cheney was getting at in this little part of her intro, in this specific part of it. >> president trump's relentless effort on january 6th, and in the days beforehand, to pressure vice president pence to refuse to count lawful electoral votes. as a federal judge, has indicated, this likely violated two federal criminal statutes. >> trump's effort on january 6th and the days beforehand, to pressure vice president pence, that he should refuse to count the electoral votes, likely violated two federal criminal statutes. that is liz cheney saying that. pre federal judge.
rulling president trump and his -- john eastman, likely violated to federal laws. when they pressured mike pence the way that they did. and what she specifically describing, you could check in on the judges ruling, are these two federal statutes. 18 u.s. coats, section 15 12 c, at 18 u.s. code section 371. in plain english that is obstruction of a official proceeding, and it's conspiracy to defraud the. united states, and you know, there's been all this talk in the last, i hate people in the media doing media criticism but im just gonna say this because i feel like this is an issue that kind of needs to offense put around its kind of becoming blown up into a bigger deal than. there's been all this talk over the past few months by particularly in the past couple of days about whether or not the january 6th investigation, at the end of their investigation, whether they are going to make formal referrals to the u.s. department of justice, about prosecuting crimes that the investigation has turned up. there's all this focus on whether or not all the members of the committee feel the same
way about that issue, what they've said about whether they are going to issue criminal referrals or whether they will not issue criminal overalls. honestly, it's kind of moot. i mean, here tonight, in this video, released on twitter, congresswoman liz cheney is making criminal referrals. right? laying out the evidence, the committee, the investigation has been laying at the evidence that they have found potential crimes. they have named the federal statutes they believed were violated. and they have named the people who they say did it. that's a criminal referral, whether or not you write it down or you say it in the video that's posted online from the official twitter account of the january six investigation, that's it. what else do you want? this is the january 6th investigators serving the volleyball over the net to federal prosecutors. >> as a federal judge has indicated, this likely violated two federal criminal statutes. president trump had no factual basis for what he was doing. and he had been told it was
illegal. >> he had been told it was illegal. it was not based on any factual truth about the world, meaning he did it and he did it with corrupt intent, which means it's prosecutable, in the view of january 6th investigation, vice chair republican congresswoman liz cheney. in terms of what happens next here, the next january 6th hearing is not going to be tomorrow. it's going to be thursday. and the thursday hearing is going to be about the pressure on vice president mike pence that he had to overturn the election. the original plan had been that there would be another hearing before that, there would be a hearing tomorrow about trump's efforts to use the justice department to force the overthrow of the government. that hearing, we are told, will still happen. by that has been delayed. they are basically going to skip that one for now. they are going to slow down and try to do two hearings a week instead of three hearing a week, it seems, and that honestly seems fine. do it at whatever pace you need to get it right.
but with all the hearings we have got on deck, i think we now realize that, from the list of witnesses we are told to expect -- from the witnesses we've seen already, from the depositions we know have been taken, i think we can see, you are going to see a bit of the same pattern network, throughout. you are going to see trump lawyers and trump's kind of lawyer, guys like bill barr, who frankly, in bill barr's case, happily spread trump lies before and after the election, that democrats were perpetrating some kind of terrible shenanigans around the election. bill barr, who was as much of a problem on this issue in terms of making false claims about the election ahead of things really going to hell in a handbasket around january 6th -- bill barr, for all that he did wrong, specifically on this issue, nevertheless, bill barr is bailing out on trump now and testifying under oath that everything trump was pushing to the public was ally and he knew is a lie. another trump lawyer, richard donahue, number two at the justice department after barr left, he was right there, along with bill barr, actually
inserting himself into the process and making the justice department spend real resources investigating these made up, ridiculous on their face fraud claims, as if they were real things. richard donahue helping very much in that regard -- but in the end, nevertheless, bailing out when he was asked to do too much. and now richard donahue, as well, will be testifying under oath that everything trump was pushing was a lie and he knew it was a lie. lawyers like eric herschmann, the impeach obama trump white house lawyer to the end, he's now bailing out in testifying under oath that everything trump was pushing to the public was a lie. and he knew it was a lie. we are going to keep getting this. from more and more of them, on every aspect of the skeam. and every because it's the way that trump likes his lawyers, we are going to get it all with extra hot sauce. and extra bluster and extra swear words. and apparently, with referrals
for federal criminal prosecution, live and out loud in realtime, as they roll out the evidence. and yes, it is getting through. again, i am allergic to media criticism, go up to the upper left corner of the country -- here's the anchorage daily news today, front page. trump's inner circle warned him election fraud claims were false. go to the upper right corner of the country -- here's portland, maine, the portland press herald, advisers told trump election fraud claims were false. go to the middle of the country. here's the detroit free press front page today -- aides warned trump to stop. here's the star tribune in minneapolis, minnesota. allies warned trump election claims were false. what you are seeing here is it distilled. these are the headline versions versions of what liz cheney is a spreading out, the [inaudible] so much ink and so much hot air has been spilled. will this sink in? we look at across? it's getting across, people are
getting. it's getting across the country it's clear as you can get it, thanks in part to trump's own taste in lawyers. and thanks to them it's getting through with some extra sauce on it, which makes it even harder to miss. and there is more to come. stay with us.
we have to be able to repair the enamel on a daily basis. with pronamel repair toothpaste, we can help actively repair enamel in its weakened state. it's innovative. my go to toothpaste is going to be pronamel repair. if you have advanced non-small cell lung cancer, your first treatment could be a chemo-free combination of two immunotherapies that works differently. it could mean a chance to live longer. opdivo plus yervoy is for adults newly diagnosed with non-small cell lung cancer that has spread, tests positive for pd-l1, and does not have an abnormal egfr or alk gene. together, opdivo plus yervoy helps your immune system launch a response that fights cancer in two different ways. opdivo plus yervoy equals a chance for more time together. more family time. more time to remember.
opdivo and yervoy can cause your immune system to harm healthy parts of your body during and after treatment. these problems can be severe and lead to death. see your doctor right away if you have a cough; chest pain; shortness of breath; irregular heartbeat; diarrhea; constipation; severe stomach pain, nausea or vomiting; dizziness; fainting; eye problems; extreme tiredness; changes in appetite, thirst or urine; rash; itching; confusion; memory problems; muscle pain or weakness; joint pain; flushing; or fever. these are not all the possible side effects. problems can occur together and more often when opdivo is used with yervoy. tell your doctor about all medical conditions including immune or nervous system problems, if you've had or plan to have an organ or stem cell transplant, or received chest radiation. here's to a chance to live longer. ask your doctor about the combination of two immunotherapies, opdivo plus yervoy. thank you to all those in our clinical trials.
when people come, they say they've tried lots of diets, nothing's worked or they've lost the same 10, 20, 50 pounds over and over again. they need a real solution. i've always fought with 5-10 pounds all the time. eating all these different things and nothing's ever working. i've done the diets, all the diets. before golo, i was barely eating but the weight wasn't going anywhere. the secret to losing weight and keeping it off is managing insulin and glucose. golo takes a systematic approach to eating that focuses on optimizing insulin levels. we tackle the cause of weight gain, not just the symptom. when you have good metabolic health, weight loss is easy. i always thought it would be so difficult to lose weight, but with golo, it wasn't. the weight just fell off.
i have people come up to me all the time and ask me, "does it really work?" and all i have to say is, "here i am. it works." my advice for everyone is to go with golo. it will release your fat and it will release you. >> hey everyone, congresswoman nancy mace here, i'm in front of trump tower today. in 2015, when president trump announced his run, i was one of his earliest supporters. if you want to lose the seat once again in the midterm election cycle to democrats, then my opponent is more than qualified to do just that. >> notice sort of the air of sadness about that video. this was south carolina republican congressman nancy mace. earlier this year she recorded a sort of sad, slightly grovelling campaign video, well she stood outside trump tower, in new york city. the air of sadness there is because that was the day after former president trump had endorsed not her.
former president trump had endorsed her primary opponent. and when you heard nancy mace say in that video that she was one of trump's earliest supporters, that's true. in 2016 she was the coalition and field directed for trump's 2016 presidential campaign. she was one of the very few early paid staffers on that campaign. when she went on to win a seat in the south carolina state legislature two days later in 2018. this was the headline in -- the charleston post and courier nancy mace gives south carolina its first -- with clear ties to trump. but then there were some minor fraying threads on those ties, when trump white house advisor steve bannon defied a subpoena in the january six investigation. nancy mace was one of the members of congress that said bannon should be held in contempt. she also just publicly voiced dismay about the events of january six themselves. and you wouldn't think either
of those things is a cardinal sin but apparently those things were enough to get her a trump backed primary challenge for her seat in congress in south carolina. that election has been held today. in south carolina. we're gonna get results thus far on that from steve kornacki who is all over this tonight, he is standing by. you should also know though that trumpy but not trump enough republican congresswoman nancy mace is not the only one who is up against this particular kind of wall tonight. south carolina republican congressman tom rice is another one. he was one of ten republican members of congress who actually voted to impeach trump for his role in trying to overthrow the government with the january 6th attack. that vote from tom rice was a surprise. but it was enough to earn rice a trump backed republican challenger in south carolina. let's check in on both of these races with the great steve kornacki at his big board. steve how is it looking for rita looks like that vote to
impeach donald trump by tom rice was also enough to cost him his seat in congress. you can see here nbc news is predicting his trump backed challenger russell fry has outright won this republican primary. remember, there's a 50% rule in effect in south carolina. the question here was, would fry get over 50% and win this thing outright tonight? if he had fallen short, he would have been sent to a runoff with rice. rights would have been a heavy underdog in that runoff. but there will be no runoff. it's been subtle tonight, by more than 2 to 1 margin. fry has trounced congressman tom rice in this republican primaries seventh district. -- and had a solid conservative voting record. but it was that vote to impeach donald trump that brought the challenge from frye, and brought the number of other republicans in the race, for that matter, all of whom criticize to rice for that impeachment vote. so, tom rice, ousted from the impeachment -- that trump backed challenger
winds there. you mentioned the first district of south carolina. the other big trump endorsement state in the palmetto state tonight. here, challenger katie arrington is going to lose. we are predicting that freshman congresswoman nancy mace will hold on, she will survive on this republican primary and you see the margin there with some votes to come. a little bit under ten points, misses cleaning up particularly in charleston but doing well enough elsewhere in the district. she has held off this challenge from katie arrington. so, don't, trump in texas -- in texas? getting south carolina, going one for two tonight. but speaking of texas, that is the other, at this hour, major development. it's a special election in texas. it's for a seat that will only exist of the next few months. and yet i think it's a significant result because we've talked so much about the south texas and the hispanic vote in particular. let's take into the if we can see and get this called up here. the 15th district --
i'm trying to get it called up here. here it is, mira flores, a republican, we've projected, will win outright the special election in the 34th district. this is one of the most can hispanic congressional district in america. this is a special election for a seat being redrawn because of redistricting but we've been talking since the 2020 election about south texas. the rio grande valley, -- we've seen county after county, swing ten, 20, 30 points away from the democrats, towards the republicans in the 2020 election. one of the questions is, with the swings persist in 2022? certainly, saying in the special election with the republican women in this district tonight, there are signs that that swing is persisting. it's a story in south texas and it's a story in south florida and is a national story with the hispanic vote could be very significant in these 2022 midterms. big shifted that could affect a
lot of races. those of the three biggies we've got so far. it's an interesting primary night. it would be back right after this. this we have to be able to repair the enamel on a daily basis. with pronamel repair toothpaste, we can help actively repair enamel in its weakened state. it's innovative. my go to toothpaste is going to be pronamel repair. fishing helps ease my mind. it's kinda like having liberty mutual. they customize your car insurance, so you only pay for what you need. woah! look out! [submarine rising out of water] [minions making noise] minions are bitin' today.
(sung) liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. minions: the rise of gru, in theaters july 1st.

what if i sleep hot? ...or cold? no problem. the sleep number 360 smart bed is (temperature balancing,. liberty. liberty. so you both stay comfortable and can help you get 30 minutes more restful sleep per night. save 50% on the sleep number 360 limited edition smart bed. another cooperator. plus, 0% interest for 36 months. ends monday
now today another member of the pro trump, right wing, paramilitary group, the proud boys, pled guilty for his role in the january 6th attack, and also agreed to cooperate with prosecutors. this makes three now, three members of the so-called proud boys, who have pled guilty. one of those is cooperating and
cooperating in the seditious conspiracy case, the justice department has brought against the group. there's also a seditious conspiracy case pending against the members of another proto-fascist, pro trump, paramilitary group called the oath keepers. seditious conspiracy is a specific, rarely charged, very serious crime that the justice department has had a heck of a time in previous cases, proving it. the very few times it's ever been used in the u.s. criminal law. but one of the things we are learning from the indictments and from the court filings in the seditious cases, and in the public hearings for the january six investigation, is that these paramilitary groups were apparently, an important intergral part of the plot to try to overthrow the government, to stop the certification of the last election. by using force inside the u.s. capitol. the january six investigators have laid out how hundreds of these proud boys marched to the capital, hours before trump directed the crowd and his
rally if they should go to the capitol. they started attacking police just as trump started sending the big mob their way. they were effectively the tip of the spear. they breached the capitol, and then the mob was there to roll and behind them. the chairman of the january six committee says that the upcoming hearings, witnesses will describe conversations between these paramilitary groups that led the breach of the capitol and people in the orbit of then president trump. they are charged with sedition. and then there's him. these aren't the only fascist, right wing, paramilitary groups that are operating on the bleeding edge of right-wing politics right now. just this past weekend for example, there was this. >> these guys stopped a u-haul full of dudes. >> a swarm of extremists who idaho police say, came to riot. 31 suspected white nationalist zip tied and arrested.
blocks from a pride festival. >> they were each one smoking grenades. there was multiple shields. >> -- described that a crowd in a u-haul after a caller described seeing a little army at a local hotel, with masks on their faces and slogans like reclaim america on their shirts. police charging all 31 with conspiracy to riot noting they planned to swarm several parts of court elaine, and carried paperwork similar to an operations plan that a police or military group would put together. they traveled and from states all across the country allegedly united by white nationalism. >> they appear to be affiliated with the group patriot front. >> they call themselves patriots front. they have ridiculous little uniforms, you might recognize them by their distinctive matching khakis. which is supposed to be menacing instead of making it look like they all just got off work at best buy. but this was them in d. c. last year trying to intimidate with
their little homemade shields and their j. d. soccer tension guards. this group is iranian version of one of the white nationalist groups that took part in the unite the right rally in 2017. the group renamed itself after one of its members killed heather hire, a counter protester, and seriously injured a ton of other people, when he deliberately drove his speeding car into a crowd. of anti racist protesters. them targeting the pride event in quite a lane, idaho this weekend, one of the most unnerving things about the reporting on this, was that patriot front was apparently not even the only armed far-right group, that was targeting that particular pride events and that particular part of idaho this weekend. another so-called patriot group, had planned ashowoff your gun event to coincide with and menace that same pride gathering in courts elaine. the same weekend a different group of proud boys stormed
into a library and the san fransisco bay area and it's up to the story children session, shouting anti, gay and anti-trans threats, because the story time was led by a drag queen, so they were there to break it up by force. you will notice that the targets of these various fascist pro trump melt paramilitary groups, like patriot front, oath keepers, proud boys, you'll notice that their targets are the political targets of our current republican party. the paramilitary groups are providing physical attacks, the school intimidation, to reinforce political attacks. democrats, deep state actors are trying to steal the election. well these will be the gross that will be the tip of the spear that violent lay storm into the capital, to stop that. gay folks, trans folks, are going after our children. well these groups will storm pride festivals, and supposedly objectionable children story groups, and men's people with weapons and with threats. they will put physical force behind the political threats
from the republican party. there are historical and sociological reasons behind the existence of fascist, paramilitary, organizations in the united states. this is not our first rodeo with these clowns. but, it's a different thing altogether when paramilitary groups like this start playing a political function, add juncts, to one of the two major parties in our country. that is a very, very bad sign. we'll have more on that next, stay with us. h. it kills 99% of plaque bacteria and forms an antibacterial shield. try parodontax active gum health mouthwash. hey businesses! you all deserve something epic! so we're giving every business, our best deals on every iphone - including the iphone 13 pro with 5g. that's the one with the amazing camera?
yep! every business deserves it... like one's that re-opened! hi, we have an appointment. and every new business that just opened! like aromatherapy rugs! i'll take one in blue please! it's not complicated. at&t is giving new and existing business customers our best deals on every iphone. ♪ ♪ every year we try to exercise more, to be more social, to just relax. and eating healthy every single meal? if only it was this easy for us.


we have to be able to repair the enamel on a daily basis. with pronamel repair toothpaste, we can help actively repair enamel in its weakened state. it's innovative. my go to toothpaste is going to be pronamel repair. police charging all 31 with conspiracy to right, noting they planned to swarm several
parts of coeur d'alene and carried paperwork similar to an operations plan that a police or military group would put together. they traveled in from states all across the country allegedly united by white nationalism. >> they appear to be affiliated with the group patriot front. >> why are white nationalist targeting a pride parade? in idaho, or anywhere? historian kathleen belew is the author of bring the war home, the white power movement and paramilitary america, she's the expert on these kinds of movements. thank you for making time for us tonight. >> thank you for having me. >> so, i've learned a lot of what i know about white power groups, in this country, imperative sorry movements in this country from your scholarship. but i wanted to ask you about this impression that i have from recent news, from this sedition indictments for the oath keepers and proud boys, for what we saw this weekend and in idaho -- i have the sense, this impression, that these groups are now operating sort of as an adjunct pretty close hedging to
what's happening in right-wing electoral politics. they seem to be targeting the same targets, at least, that are being singled out by right wing republican politicians. that feels unnerving to me. i want to ask you if that stands out to you? >> i think that's very concerning. and we don't know as much about that interface, between mainstream politics and paramilitary white power activism in the militant right, as we do about the fringe of the movement. but what we do know is that these groups are inherently opportunistic and they are prepared to use any open window to recruit, and radicalize and foment violence and this is worth mentioning that when we say the word white nationalists, sometimes people think that means overzealous patriotism, but for these activists, the nation they invasion is not the united states it's a transnational group of white people. it is a white f no state. it's not the america defined by democracy and multi racial identity the one we live in.
it's an imaginary all white state. so this is a very extremist movement. it's drawing in people as you mention, from all over the country. and the reason that we are seeing so many of these stories at the same time, about oath keepers, patriot front, proud boys, the january six hearings, all of these things are happening at the same time, because this isn't a story about any one of these groups. this is a story about groundswell, and even though it appears to be disconnected of activism, it's meant to do that. what it is is a nationwide paramilitary army, that is prepared to do battle for its own purposes. now how much that can be wielded by the republican party even on the very fringe? i think it's open to question. >> what do you make of the reports including from nbc news that after arresting these patriot front members in idaho, the actual police officers who arrested some of them, the police department are getting doxxed and getting threatened. why are they threatening the police? >> this is the kind of a push
pull on social media, because often there has been an issue with overlap between some of these groups, and some people in law enforcement, and i would not paint that with one brush at all. but you know coeur d'alene has a long history of dealing with these movements. and coeur d'alene was the site of the aryan nations compound, an epicenter for this activity in the 1980s. it was nearby the headquarter for finneas priesthood, in the 90s, similar movement folks that they are not new to this and they are very aware of how violence it can become and how dramatically it can impact their community. so i think, one thing that stands out to me about the law enforcement response, and the emblem ties them the doxxing is that even structures of power are very much in the crosshairs in this movement there are issues of peoples homes being bombed, in coeur d'alene, of people being run off the road,
of people being harassed out of town. it goes on and on like this. bank robberies in nearby spokane, washington -- activists in the movement they come from have done incalculable damage to coeur d'alene overtime. >> kathleen belew, author of bring the war home, the white power movement and paramilitary -- in america. professor, belew, thank so much for your time, appreciate it. we will be right back. l be right back. it syncs with your favorite vc apps so you'll never miss a meeting. and neither will she. meta portal, make working from home work for you. if you have age-related macular degeneration, there's only so much time before it can lead to blindness. but the areds 2 clinical study showed that a specific nutrient formula can help reduce the risk of dry amd progression. ask your doctor now about an areds 2 supplement. - common percy! - yeah let's go! on a trip. book with priceline. you save more, so you can “woooo” more.
- wooo. - wooo. wooooo!!!!! woohooooo!!!! w-o-o-o-o-o... yeah, feel the savings. priceline. every trip is a big deal. to help prevent bleeding gums, try saying hello gumwash with parodontax active gum health. it kills 99% of plaque bacteria and forms an antibacterial shield. try parodontax active gum health mouthwash.

another crazy day? of course—you're a cio in 2022. but you're ready. because you've got the next generation in global secure networking from comcast business. with fully integrated security solutions all in one place. so you're covered. on-premise and in the cloud. you can run things the way you want —your team, ours or a mix of both. with the nation's largest ip network. from the most innovative company. bring on today with comcast business. powering possibilities.™ as a business owner, your bottom line is always top of mind. so start saving by switching to the mobile service
designed for small business: comcast business mobile. flexible data plans mean you can get unlimited data or pay by the gig. all on the most reliable 5g network. with no line activation fees or term contracts... saving you up to $500 a year. and it's only available to comcast business internet customers. so boost your bottom line by switching today. comcast business. all right, that is going to be powering possibilities.™ it for us, let me remind you that when you're used to seeing me anymore, i will be back again tomorrow night, wednesday night 9 pm eastern for another special edition of therachelmaddowshow, you are just gonna have to stand it. now it's time for the last word with lawrence o'donnell, good evening lawrence. >> i'm just going to have to get used to itrachel, this is fun. we have some breaking news,rachel-- court schedules an initial appearance of january 6th case