we have a lot of bad news about democracy, a lot of news about polarization right now, but the fact that we see that kind of widespread pulling, that 80% of americans understand that elected leaders should be putting the peoples interest before their own interest reassures me a lot. >> i agree. anytime matt gates is on, i am always, like am i missing something? congresswoman katie porter, thank you very much. all right, that is all in for this evening, therachelmaddowshowstarts right now, ali is in forrachel. >> have yourself a great evening, and thank you at-home for joining us this hour. we have got a lot ofshowto get to tonight. today, the january six investigation issued subpoenas for another senior trump white house official. trump treated visor, peter navarro. mr. navarro has not been shy about talking about his efforts to overturn the 2020 election. he has actually written an entire book about it. he has given numerous interviews, including more than a one with my colleague ari melber right here on this
network. our east face says it all in this interview. in all of these forums, he has been downright proud of the plan that he says he was pushing to overturn the election results. but tonight, mr. navarro seems suddenly reticent when it comes to talking about the january 6th investigation. he says he cannot possibly speak to them, without donald trump's permission, and so they need to go talk to trump's lawyers. that is not how a subpoena works. but okay. we will be keeping an eye on that. also tonight, remember that story that we brought you earlier this week about the national archives discovering that donald trump took 15 boxes of white house records to his golf club when he left office. and how the archives had to get those boxes back? because donald trump was not allowed to take them in the first place. well now the archives have asked the justice department to get involved, after reportedly finding wooded believed to be classified material inside those boxes. we are going to have the details on that story a little
later in theshow. and, we will be joined live by senator chris murphy who attended a classified briefing today, that he called, quote, downright scary. like i said, lots to get to tonight. but we start in the great state of michigan, again. last, night we started theshowwith a scoop out of michigan about one part of the scheme that president trump and his allies pursued to overturn the 2020 election and to keep trump in office. now, this was a part of the scheme that involved creating fleets of fake presidential electors, like the michigan republicans you see here, trying to get into the state capital a few weeks after the election. pick trump electors, in multiple states that joe biden won forged and sign documents purporting to be real, true electors from their states, so that mike pence could be pressured to use those slates of fake electors to overturn the election when he presided over the electoral vote in
congress on january the 6th. yesterday we talked about this reporting from the detroit news, emails appearing toshowdirect coordination between the trump campaign, and these a fake electors and michigan. but there was another part of the scheme to overturn the election. and it revolved around voting machines. last month, politico.com was first to obtain this executive order. apparently prepared for president trump, that would have authorized the department of defense to go around the country, seizing voting machines after the 2020 election. cnn reported that a second executive order was prepared, that laid out essentially the same scheme, but it would have authorized the department of homeland security to seize voting machines instead of the military. the new york times reported that donald trump personally directed his lawyer rudy giuliani to ask the head of some homeland security to ask that agency to orchestrate this
easing of voting machines and multiple states. the time said that donald trump also made the ask personally to a different apartment, another one entirely! in an oval office meeting, trump reportedly asked attorney general william barr to have the justice department go seize voting machines. just tonight, political has published some of the emails passing around these dropped executive orders in mid december, 2020. the email chain includes trump's ex national security adviser michael flynn, rudy giuliani, the palace of rudy giuliani, the former disgraced commissioner bernard kerik, who was also working with trump's legal team. we should know that political reports that the metadata on the draft executive order to the pentagon suggests that it was created by somebody who is not even on the email chain, get this, a news anchor from a far-right pro trump tv network who was moonlighting with giuliani's crack legal team.
make of that what you will. the point is, they were really focused on trying to get the voting machines. it was not a passing fancy, they tried three different ways to do it using three different federal agencies. try the justice department, try the military, someone called homeland security, put rudy on the horn. but one of the strangest things about these dropped executive orders as that they all include a long detailed section, giving all of this background information on one small county in michigan, it is near the top of all of these drops, quote, i don't want a trump, president of the united states, find that the forensic report of the and trump county in michigan voting machines, and other evidence supported this order provided probable cause, sufficient to require action, because of evidence of international and foreign interference in the november 3rd, 2020, election.
and quote. and then the executive orders go on to describe how the voting machines from michiganshowthat the whole election was rigged, and that is why we have to seize all of the voting machines everywhere. now, i am not going to try to describe to the entire conspiracy theory that revolves around antrim county michigan, because i like, you and i respect you, and i would not do that to you. but you should know, this in the weeks after the 2020 election, the conspiracy theory that antrim county, michigan, contained the proof of a vast international plot by which the election was stolen from donald trump, that was at the center of trump's push to overturn the election. trump talked about it all of the time. he tried to get the justice department to investigate it. just how naughty was this conspiracy theory? when republicans in the michigan legislator looked into it, this is what they concluded. i am going to read it to you, but i want to stress, that this
was a republican state lawmakers in washington. quote, ideas and speculation that antrim county election workers or outside entities manipulated the vote by hand or electronically are indefensible. the committee is appalled at what can only be deduced as willful ignorance, or avoidance of this proof perpetuated by some leading such speculation. the committee recommends the attorney general considered investigating those who have been utilizing misleading and false information about and trump county to raise money, and publicize it for their own end. michigan republicans not only thoroughly debunked the theory, they thought it was so egregious that the people who peddled it should be prosecuted. and yet, the county was the explicit basis for draft executive orders directing federal agencies to seize voting mush.
machines. here is where we get to today's brand new development out of michigan. last, weekrachelreported that in addition to all of these efforts to get federal agencies to seize voting machines, when president trump invited delegations of republican state lawmakers from michigan and pennsylvania to the white house, a couple of weeks after the election, he also talked to them about seizing the voting machines and their states. that is according to the new reporting from the new york times. and on november 20th, the very same day trump was meeting with republicans at the white house, from michigan, it lawyer for a michigan county sheriff emailed a trump lawyer, claiming that his local sheriff, this local sheriff, had seized voting machines and ballots. the sheriff by the way, denied that he had actually done it. so now that we know that right on, or around that same day, november 20, 2020, rudy giuliani absolute cool prosecutor and michigan to please, sees the voting machines for the trump campaign.
now from the washington post today, quote, in the weeks after the 2020 election, rudolph w. giuliani and other legal advisers to president donald trump asked a republican prosecutor in northern michigan to get his counties voting machines, and pat them to trump's team. the county prosecutor james roster said in an interview that giuliani and several colleagues made the request during a telephone call. rosters that he declined, he said i can't just give them -- give them here, we don't have that magical power to just a man things as prosecutors. you need probable cause. even if he had sufficient grounds to take the machines of evidence, he said that he could not have released them to outsiders, or a party with an interest in the matter. legal scholars said it was unusual, and inappropriate for a presidents representatives to make such a request of a local prosecutor. i never expected in my life i
get a call like this, rosseter said. and quote. trump and his allies tried to get the pentagon to seize the machines. then, they tried to get the justice department, they tried homeland security, they tried state lawmakers, they tried a local prosecutor. they never got anyone to say yes. but they really, really did try to make it happen. joining us now is emma brown, investigated reported for the washington post who broke the story today with her colleagues. miss brown, thank you for making time to be here tonight. what is fascinating about this is the basis upon which they were creating these requests, and these demands. this idea that sydney powell and others, part of a trump legal team, had created. that there were outside influences who must have been meddling with these machines. not just local democrats, but outside -- foreign countries.
that they were using this as a basis to seize the machines. i am not sure which would have happened if anybody gave them the machines, or agreed with them. >> the thing that happened in antrim county that was different and everywhere else, even though the prosecutor said no, i cannot do that, i will not hand them over. there was access granted to the machines from a court order. a local realtor filed a lawsuit. behind the scenes, giuliani's team helped, once ... how does getting the machines and it's inspecting them. producing this 23-page, so-called, forensic report. they claimed massive folks fixing. massive vote fixing. that report was venues. that is what is cited in the draft that you were just talking about. it was actually used, came out on december 14th, the day the electors voted. giuliani, that day, put out a
press release that said, hey, this is undisputable, he said. undisputable proof of fraud. it is reason enough that lawmakers should stop. they should help the voting of the electors because we cannot allow this to happen. >> it turns out that there were some air. it was human error, clerical error, upon which it based all the claim. when actually did happen that rudy giuliani and sort of blew up into this global espionage vote rigging? >> well, you are right. there was an error in antrim county. it was a succession of human errors, clerical errors, that resulted in on ... in the wee morning hours of november 4th. it looked like, the results came out and showed that biden had won this very world, very conservative county, that no democratic presidential nominee had one. it perfect failed by 3000
votes. it was just absurd. the county within hours had taken the aunt serves down. when it happened was was that there was this last minute to some pranks sinks because there had been ballot errors. when they didn't update the machines correctly to count the paper ballots correctly. when people filled out their vallance by hand, the machines had scanned them, scan them. when they went to go tally them all up, there is a problem. so, what they did ... they had to go back and fix that problem. they still had the paper ballots that everybody had voted that they could then check. so, they tally them up. they had the correct vote totals, eventually. and then they did all of recount of the presidential race in that county. they counted all the paper ballots. they found that, you know, once the machines were updated correctly, they had counted correctly. >> they have a pretty robust
system in michigan to audit. it's not like a lot of other states we have to jump through hoops. there is a company that reviewed this, allied security operations group. in that report that you described, they said this, the antrim county clerk has stated that the election night error was the result of human error. we disagree i conclude that the vote flip occurred because of machine error built into the voting software designed to create error. and quote. that is the heart of the trump claims and efforts to get those machines. it wasn't human error. it wasn't some little thing. i don't know what they were saying it was. battalions, the venezuelans, whoever. they kept coming up with it. their whole argument was that these machines were built to flip the election, or to let biden win. >> that is what they were claiming. the republicans in michigan, by
experts of many stripes. the report was written by a texas businessman and reactive us, former republican congressional candidate name russell rams lynn. it included an exhibit that was created, if you look in the metadata by priests. priess was a lawyer, working with giuliani. he was on that call with the prosecutor, trying to get the machines. so, she has stood with this report in some way. brand slip, he was on his emails that you're talking about that came out on politico today. discussing the executive order. many of what we learned today was that many of the same people who were involved in trying to get machines to generate a report that would claim fraud, were also discussing how that report would be used in a draft executive order to seize machines elsewhere. >> russell rams line is a topic for another night, because it
is a whole story unto itself. emma brown, thank you for reporting on this. she is a reporter from the washington post. we really appreciate your time tonight. we're going to have the latest breaking news on the national archives found classified material among documents that donald trump took when he left the white house. that is next. first, we have a development on a story that we told you about last night. d.c. police say seven schools were evacuated today after receiving anonymous bomb threats by phone. an eight district school also received a threat, but classes were not in session when the threat came. and police searched all the buildings. nothing hazardous was found. denver high school is one of the schools targeted today. the second time in two days. just yesterday, the building was cleared after a bomb threat during a visit from vice president, kamala harris's husband. d.c. police said that they are working with the fbi and the atf. tonight, we're able to confirm
a news report from homeland security that secretary mayorkas has now been briefed on the series of bomb threats. as to whether these threats are related to the recent spate of bomb threats called into historically black colleges and universities, authorities are not making that connection yet. they are not ruling it out, either. we will be right back. >> >>
what can i du with less asthma? with dupixent, i can du more....beginners' yoga. namaste... ...surprise parties. aww, you guys. dupixent helps prevent asthma attacks... ...for 3!... ...so i can du more of the things i love. dupixent is not for sudden breathing problems. it's an add-on-treatment for specific types of moderate-to-severe asthma that can improve lung function for better breathing in as little as two weeks. and can reduce, or even eliminate, oral steroids. and here's something important. dupixent can cause serious allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis. get help right away if you have rash, shortness of breath, chest pain, tingling or numbness in your limbs. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection, and don't change or stop your asthma treatments, including steroids, without talking to your doctor. are you ready to du more with less asthma?
just ask your asthma specialist about dupixent. one of the worst things about a cold sore is how it can make you feel. but, when used at the first sign, abreva can get you back to being you in just 2 and a half days. be kinder to yourself and tougher on your cold sores. >> tonight, nbc news has

confirmed that the justice department has been asked to investigate whether donald trump broke the presidential records act while he was in office. we have known for years at the former president had a habit of ripping up documents after he was done with them. anything from briefings to memos to letters wound up stranded two pieces. even though the presidential records act requires the white house to preserve presidential documents. and so, aides would have to tape those ripped documents back together. the practice became --
and the january six investigation in recent days, because investigators have begun to collect thousands of pages from trump's records, from the national archives, as part of their look into the january 6th attack on the capitol. the national archives confirmed last week that several of the records that the trump administration turned over to archivists were torn up. while some were taped back together, others had not been reconstructed by trump's white house. the national archives also reported this week that it had to retrieve 15 boxes of presidential material from trump's home in mar-a-lago. these things were correspondence with could north korean leader, kim jong-un, as well as a letter left for trump by president barack obama 2017. gifts, things that should have been turned over to the national archives when trump left office. trump, instead, took them home with him. it turns out you can't bring home white house souvenirs home. both of these habits, tearing up records and bringing records
and gifts back to his personal residence, they are both possibly major violations of the presidential act. the presidential records are not the property of the individual person who holds the office. they are public property. they cannot be destroyed. now, the national archives is taking an unusual step of asking the -- justice department to investigate whether trump's handling of official white house records, including classified material, does in fact violate that federal law. now, within the past hour, we got word from the new york times about what could have prompted the national archives to take that step. here's the headline. archives found possible classified material in boxes returned by trump. quote, the national archives and records administration discovered what it believed was classified information in documents that donald j trump had taken with him from the white house as he left office. according to a person briefed
on the matter. the discovery prompted the national archives to reach out to the justice department for guidance. the person said, the department told the national archives to have its inspector general exam in the matter. the times doesn't know what's happened next. meanwhile, the washington post, which first reported the national archives referral to the justice department, also reports that these discussions between the two agencies are preliminary. it's not yet clear whether the justice department will investigate this. what does it take to decide whether trump's record-keeping regiment breaks the law? joining us now is cohen, a former associate counsel. and then, general counsel for budget during the obama administration. miss cohen, thank you for being here tonight. i assume that you are well briefed on what you are supposed to and not supposed to do with documents. not just for the president, but in these jobs that you have worked in. it is pretty clear. i mean ... it has to be president when no one to
realize that you cannot destroy documents in the white house. we've been hearing reports fears that donald trump does this. >> yeah. thank you so much for having me. it is absolutely crystal clear when you enter one of those jobs in the white house, about what you can and can't do with presidential records and what you can do with your own records. you know, i would've never expected anyone among my colleagues to have, you know, torn up their records and tape them back together, or taken them even with them, home to their residents ... >> there is even talk and recording that staff who knew the roles would go in right after trump, wherever he was, retrieve documents that hadn't been ripped up, and take those that had and try to piece them back together, sometimes successfully, sometimes unsuccessfully. so, it is not that the white house can claim that we didn't know that you're actually supposed to keep the step. it was obvious that you are supposed to. so, what is your best guess as
to when this ripping things up was about? >> yeah. all commend those staffers who pieced the documents back together again. i mean, that must been a difficult thing to actually do in light of the fact that their boss deliberately flouted the rules and the law. my best guess is that white house counsel would have repeatedly told the council -- how important was to preserve the documents. there is no excuse then, in light of the fact that those warnings would've inevitably gone out and ... they would've gotten's latest ... right up until the end of the administration. there is no reason why he would've then taken those documents with him to florida. there would be no excuse for that. >> so, let's explain. that you're packing up the white house to move out. clearly, there's some stuff he
brought to the white house that is yours. those go into your personal boxes, i suppose. they literally put aside separate boxes that had had, we believe, the sharpie weather thing. the correspondence with kim jong-un. the letter from president obama. other things that might be classified. stuff that definitely doesn't fall into the category of things i brought with me to the white house. a teddy bear i need close to me. there seems to be some curious shun to the documents that went into the box that went to mar-a-lago. >> i can't say that i totally understand the picture of the map with the sharpie circle had to do with the letter to, you know, another foreign leader. so, the fact that he took some of those materials with him ... in particular, yellow, letters to foreign leaders, is not only problematic from a perspective, it's problematic from a
transition perspective. you really inhibit the next administration by taking materials that are important to the national security of the united states. correspondence with foreign leaders is of utmost importance when incoming administration is trying to decide its policy, with respect to different countries. so, he not only inhibited future historians from being able to really hold him accountable through his records. he also inhibited the next administration, which was hampered by not having a full accounting of how he handled certain correspondents, certain communication with foreign leaders. you know, i'm curious a ... saw the reporting that said the archives recovered 15 boxes of documents. but they didn't report on how many he took. so, the questions are actually,
not only, you now, the documents that he recovered, they recovered. them that one year period, whether there are other materials that had a different faith. >> it is remarkable story. some miss cohen, thank you for giving your insight. a lot of cohen is the former white house general them counsel for the boma administration. we appreciate you tonight. a couple of guest, senator chris murray will be here live after he attended a classified briefing today that he called, downright scary. a story of tim snider joins us next. to help us make sense of what is happening in canada's growing trucker protests. the department of homeland security warns could soon be happening here. happening here it can all add up. kesimpta is a once-monthly at-home injection...
that may help you put these rms challenges in their place. kesimpta was proven superior at reducing the rate of relapses, active lesions, and slowing disability progression vs aubagio. don't take kesimpta if you have hepatitis b, and tell your doctor if you have had it, as it could come back. kesimpta can cause serious side effects, including infections. while no cases of pml were reported in rms clinical trials, it could happen. tell your doctor if you had or plan to have vaccines, or if you are or plan to become pregnant. kesimpta may cause a decrease in some types of antibodies. the most common side effects are upper respiratory tract infection, headache, and injection reactions. ready for an at-home treatment with dramatic results? it's time to ask your doctor about kesimpta. (vo) you can be well-dressed. you can be well-mannered. (man) oh, no, no, after you. wahoooo! (vo) you can be well-groomed.
or even well-spoken. (man) ooooooo. (vo) but there's just something about being well-adventured. (vo) adventure has a new look. discover more in the all-new subaru forester wilderness. love. it's what makes subaru, subaru. (music) discover more in the all-new sub♪ i think to myself ♪ss. ♪ what a wonderful world ♪ as a struggling actor, i need all the breaks that i can get. at liberty butchemel... cut. liberty mu... line? cut. liberty mutual customizes your car insurance so you only pay for what you need. cut. liberty m... am i allowed to riff? what if i come out of the water? liberty biberty... cut. we'll dub it. liberty mutual customizes your car insurance so you only pay for what you need. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪
with voltaren arthritis pain gel. my husband's got his moves back. an alternative to pills, voltaren is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory gel for powerful arthritis pain relief. voltaren, the joy of movement. i'm greg, i'm 68 years old. i do motivational speaking in addition to the substitute teaching. i honestly feel that that's my calling-- to give back to younger people. i think most adults will start realizing that they don't recall things as quickly as they used to or they don't remember things as vividly as they once did. i've been taking prevagen for about three years now. people say to me periodically, "man, you've got a memory like an elephant." it's really, really helped me tremendously. >> we are now on day 13 afoot prevagen. healthier brain. better life.
officials in the canadian capital of ottawa are calling, an occupation.
for the past two weeks, hundreds of truckers have been camped out, on the streets, in their vehicles, bringing the city center of ottawa to virtual standstill. the truckers call themselves of freedom convoy, originally came to ottawa to protest the requirement that canadian truck drivers, crossing the u.s. border, be fully vaccinated. those protests have since escalated. they started spreading beyond the capitol. we have now entered day three of protesters blocking the busiest crossing in north america, the ambassador bridge, which links winds are ontario to detroit. about 200 people in vehicles are blocking, or stalling traffic on that bridge, which carries 25% of all trade between the u.s. and canada, where an estimated $300 million a day. protesters in fifth detracts are blocking the quds boarding crossing, which is the busiest port between alberta, canada and the state of montana. that cross typically sees more
than $40 million of goods passed through daily. today, protesters block yet another transportation artery at the michigan canada border. it's important to note that as much catch us as this few hundred camera -- their view on this issue is not popular in canada, at all. more than 80% of the canadian public is vaccinated. almost 90% of truckers are vaccinated. this protest wasn't even organized by the canadian trucking unions. the largest of which has come out actively against the protests. so, not only is this a fringe group of canadians, it is a fringe group, even within the small niche of canadian truckers. where this group is popular, this is interesting, where they found an incredibly large platform is right here, with american service and american conservative media. their stories have become -- like fox news, american conservatives to marjorie
taylor greene, to the former president himself, have all champion their cause. it's hard not to miss the trump flags flying among the crowds in ottawa, also spotted in the crowds, confederate flags. cue a non banners. none of which are common sights in canada. in addition to giving this fringe group, one of the largest megaphone, this american attention means the protesters have been able to fund-raise millions and millions of dollars, further amplifying their cause. this is a genuinely complex political issue. people have the right to peacefully protest. i.c.e. have strongly defended that, even if you don't agree with their point of view. americans, conservatives, american media are fanning the flames here. taking what would be a local issue and giving it international intention. today, a copycat freedom convoy protest started in france. similar protests are underway in new zealand and australia. this afternoon, nbc confirmed
that in the united states has now warned public safety officials that a copycat trucker protests could begin in the united states this super bowl sunday. the dhs bulletin says, the department has, quote, received reports of truck drivers planning to potentially block roads in major metropolitan cities in the united states in protest of among other things, vaccine mandates for truck drivers. the protests could begin as soon as sunday in los angeles to disrupt the super bowl, and that travel across the country and disrupt president biden's state of the union in march 1st. as much of this is an issue in pandemic requirements and vaccines, it is somehow become a question about democracy and how we make decisions, collectively. as these protests spread, internationally, coming to us in the united states, how can we make sure that we both of -- defend their rights to protest --
joining us is timothy snyder, he is a professor at yale university. he's a best selling author of, on tyranny. professor snyder, good to see you. this is a strange one peak oz i'm not sure is a canadian that i knew what to make of this, or thought that it would be much. it is turning into something that has tentacles the connections around the world with these anti government protests. gaining some connective tissue to bigger and, sort of, and city's protests that we are seeing. what do you think of this? >> yeah. like you, i was uncertain at first. i have a lot of friends and colleagues in canada who write to me about the work that i do. usually with the writing about is they're concerned about their friends in the south. they're concerned about the united states. these last couple of weeks have been the first time i've had contains writing to me and say, you as an american need to speak out about what is happening in ottawa. i think that they are right. what is concerning about this
is, if you have already said, we're talking about a minority of a minority of minority. there are 15,000 long haul truckers and canada, maybe 10% of them are directly affected. that is 1500 people. the thing that they are protesting against is not canadian at all. they are protesting american law. it's an american law that they have been vaccinated. protests in ottawa makes zero sense. it is a very small group with a nonsensical claim, which nevertheless has begun to spiral, which threatens both the institutions of canadian democracy, as we see in the capital of ottawa. and also, the canadian economy, as we've seen in the border crossings. when i'm worried about here is that we're seeing a model where a very small number of human beings, using tools like trucks, funded from another country, as you've already reported, and fanned by courage by conspiracy theorist on social media, can
do a lot of political and economical damage very quickly. so, i have seen this as a model, a dark politics that is emerging. >> the model doesn't work in a vacuum, right? these truckers existed and nobody talked about, than that one thing. what do you think it is that is coming from right wing media in the united states and these protests? >> i think a big wedge of right-wing politics in the united states is about the claim that government doesn't work. it is a form of right-wing anarchy is a, basically. so, if that is your view coming to light and chaos, in your own country, but also, especially in other countries. becoming up kind of parlor game to sit in florida or washington, d.c., or the news room and route the truckers on in canada, because if you like destruction, you like chaos. you want to see the deconstruction of the administration. so, if people are carrying that out before you, before your
eyes, you're just happy. i think the ideology here has to do precisely with dysfunction and disorder and proving that government can't work. of course, the canadian government generally works extremely well. to suggest that democracy doesn't work in canada, then you are making a strong argument about democracy in general. >> this is a point to talk to someone like you. you study these matters not just united states, but around the world. there is a similarity to the types of protests that are going on around the world that seem to be anti government, anti something ... not entirely focused on the cause of hand, as you point out. the restrictions that these canadian truckers are protesting by causing, you know, blockages and trouble in canada, are not canadian laws. >> yeah, i mean ... we don't have to go so far to find examples of this. united states for the past couple of years, protests that
had to do with something with vaccine mandates, frigid very quickly into much larger conspiracy theories. it striking to me how conspiracy theories that turned up in the social media backdrop for some of the organizers of the canadian protests, are the same generics of. we also have in the u.s., finding your, at find around the world. the same qanon, the same ideas, it is all generic now. it is all international, now. another way that you can think about the connection between canadians in the rest of the world here or that you can flip this around and think about america now as a type of after. right? if there are russians that are contributing money to a gofundme and into this christians site, which then, funding disorder in the united states, a funding blockades in the capital, funding blockades of border crossings ... we would say, that is a hostile action. right now, that's effectively what we are doing. as part of it actors in the nasdaq, is some very well-known ones, who are organizing behind the destruction of democratic
institutions, economic institutions in canada. if we watch someone else do, that we would say, hey, that is outrageous. if former president of another country do with mr. trump just did, did to mr. justin trudeau, he's a fanatic. he destroyed his country. we would say, that is excessive. that is outrageous. where this puts us in the mirror. >> that is a very strange develop them this whole idea of qanon and trump flags, and confederate flags in canada. it is just as you know, not a thing. so to see and becoming a thing is remarkable. timothy snyder, good to see you. he is the professor of yale university, he is the author of on tyranny, we appreciate your time this evening. senator chris murphy joins us live here in the next few minutes, after he had a classified briefing that he says really scared him. stay with us. lly scared him stay with us stay with us magic in all that chaos. ♪ so different and so new ♪
♪ was like any other... ♪ if you have type 2 diabetes or high ...you're a target for... ...chronic kidney disease. you can already have it and not know it. if you have chronic kidney disease... ...your kidney health... ...could depend on what you do today. ♪far-xi-ga♪ farxiga is a pill that works... ...in the kidneys to help slow the progression of chronic kidney disease. farxiga can cause... ...serious side effects including dehydration,... ...urinary tract or genital yeast infections... ...in women and men,... ...and low blood sugar. ketoacidosis is a serious side effect... ...that may lead to death. a rare, life-threatening bacterial infection... ...in the skin of the perineum could occur. stop taking farxiga and call your doctor right away... ...if you have symptoms of this bacterial infection,... ...an allergic reaction,... ...or ketoacidosis. and don't take it if you are on dialysis. take aim... ...at chronic kidney disease by talking to your doctor... ...and asking about farxiga. if you can't afford your medication,... ...astrazeneca may be able to help.
♪far-xi-ga♪ -capsule! -capsule! -capsule! capsule saves me money on prescriptions. capsule took care of my insurance. capsule delivered my meds to my doorstep. capsule is super safe and secure. get your prescriptions hand delivered for free at capsule.com >> woman: what's my safelite story? get your prescriptions hai'm a photographer.ee and when i'm driving, i see inspiration right through my glass. so when my windshield cracked, it had to be fixed right. i scheduled with safelite autoglass. their experts replaced my windshield and recalibrated my car's advanced safety system. ♪ acoustic rock music ♪ >> woman: safelite is the one i trust. they focus on safety so i can focus on this view. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪
it's our ultimate sleep number event on the sleep number 360 smart bed. it senses your movements and automatically adjusts to relieve pressure points. and it's temperature balancing so you both sleep just right. and now, save 50% on the sleep number 360 limited edition smart bed. plus, 0% interest for 24 months. only for a limited time. like pulsing, electric shocks, sharp, stabbing pains, or an intense burning sensation. what is this nightmare? it's how some people describe... shingles. a painful, blistering rash that could interrupt your life for weeks. forget social events and weekend getaways. if you've had chickenpox, the virus that causes shingles is already inside of you. if you're 50 years or older ask your doctor or pharmacist about shingles.
age is just a number. and mine's unlisted. try boost® high protein with 20 grams of protein for muscle health. versus 16 grams in ensure high protein. boost® high protein also has key nutrients for immune support. boost® high protein. (judith) in this market, you'll find fisher investments is different than other money managers. boost® high protein also has key nutrients (other money manager) different how? don't you just ride the wave? (judith) no - we actively manage client portfolios based on our forward-looking views of the market. (other money manager) but you still sell investments that generate high commissions, right? (judith) no, we don't sell commission products. we're a fiduciary, obligated to act in our client's best interest. (other money manager) so when do you make more money? only when your clients make more money? (judith) yep, we do better when our clients do better. at fisher investments we're clearly different. >> as we speak, six russian warships are headed to the black sea from the
mediterranean to carry out enable drills. it is all part of a massive set of military exercises put together by the kremlin, involving all of its fleets. from the pacific, to the atlantic. the warships will be stationed and very strategic locations. take a look at this map between the black sea, and the sea of ossoff, along ukrainians southern border. today, blacks the news is reporting that three areas marked in red on this map will be closed starting next week for russian missile and artillery training. today, top russian military commanders, including russia's chief of the armed forces arrived in belarus, which is the pro-russian nation which is just north of ukraine, ahead of a ten-day joint military exercise that is set to get underway there, tomorrow. vladimir putin is also amassed almost 140,000 troops now, equipped with military hardware, medical units, and blood supplies on ukraine's eastern border. russia has also announced a new military forces in belarus, again, right north of ukraine,
ahead of the joint military exercises that start tomorrow. what you see on this map is that at this very moment, russia has effectively surrounded ukraine. all ukraine has got that is not russia's its western borders, which our nato countries. tomorrow, ukraine will also begin a new set of military exercises. ukrainian troops will start drills tomorrow with armed drones, and anti tank weapons provided by the united states, and its nato member neighbors. meanwhile, diplomatic efforts continue on multiple fronts to deter putin from invading. this week, french president emmanuel macron traveled to moscow with talks with putin, president biden stonewalled by months of unsuccessful diplomatic conversations with russia had promised to hit the country and putin personally with devastating economic sanctions to bring an end to the nord stream 2 national gas pipeline, should russia invade its neighbor, that is important because russia gets a lot of money from exporting oil. also new today, president biden
approved a plan to use u.s. troops and poland, also a nato country, to help evacuate americans from ukraine if russia does invade. there is a lot going on here. joining us to discuss this, is democratic senator chris murphy, he is a member of the foreign relations committee, he is studying the situation of ukraine closely, he also attended a classified briefing today on iran, everything he described as quote, sobering and shocking. i want to talk to about that as well, senator. but let's start with russia. it is good to have you here. thank you for joining us. senator, we have got diplomacy, we have got ready -- readiness for military action, and in between there, there is variations on appeasement, and shanks and's. tell me where we are on a continuum -- and engagement with russia because of it. >> let's step back for a second then from this up. this is a signal of russian weakness, this potential invasion of ukraine.
this is a former russian republic, a former soviet republic, it is a country that was under the thumb of russia just a decade ago, when russia had a proxy government installed. today, russia has lost ukraine. ukraine people have decided that they want to be part of europe, they want to be part of nato, and the only resort left for vladimir putin to try to drag ukraine back into its orbit is this disastrous invasion that he may be planning. so we have to address this on several fronts, first we do need to give ukrainians the ability to defend themselves. we are not going to put hundreds, of thousands of u.s. troops inside ukraine, but we can supply ukraine with the means to defend itself. second, we need to make sure that russia understands, there is going to be a devastating blow to their economy if they walk into ukraine, and we are showing them that by really putting together an extraordinary set of potential sanctions. not just with the europeans, but with many of our allies all
around the globe. so russia has got a decision to make. this would be, and my mind, a massive strategic mistake akin to the invasion of afghanistan by russia in 1980, if they went through with this invasion. we are not giving up on diplomacy, but i think ultimately it is more likely if putin just decides the costs greatly outweigh the benefit, and we have got toshowhim those costs in the coming days and weeks. >> so he would like something which would sound like the rest of the world, to the rest of the world like appeasement. he wants a commitment that nato will not recruit ukraine. that ukraine would never become a member of nato. back in the late 70s, and early 80s, there were a lot of countries between russia and nato. all of those countries where, as you described, proxy russian governments. they all came to freedom themselves, and lo and behold, all made the choice that they would like to be western allied, not russian allied. you tweeted on february 2nd, quite honestly, it doesn't matter to america whether ukraine wants to a ally itself with russia, or europe, or
america. all that matters as the ukrainian people get to make that choice for themselves, and not to have it dictated to them by force. that is our interest. vladimir putin wants that not to happen. he wants ukraine in the russian fold, and of story, regardless of what ukrainians want. >> and he wants america and europe to guarantee that ukraine will stay in the russian fold. i meant when i said, ultimately this is up to the ukrainian people as to whether they want to be part of a military alliance with russia, or a military alliance with the united states, and europe. but, it bedrock principle of democracy, and a bedrock principle of supporting democracy is to allow the people to make a choice for themselves. we have never before given vladimir putin, or any other world leader it veto power on whether a democratic nation wants to allow themselves to the united states, or a foreign power. we are not going to start now. of course, everyone knows ukraine is not joining nato anytime soon.
they just have not met the qualifications. there is still an enormous amount of corruption inside ukraine that has to be addressed before they could ever join the nato alliance. so, this is a false complaint in many ways by putin. ukraine presents no threat to russian sovereignty, and everybody knows and the near future ukraine is unlikely to join nato. >> let me ask you about the briefing you got on iran. when the united states pulled out of the iran deal in 2016, it was a fledgling deal, but it had taken a decade to get there. and everybody was at least talking to one another. now we have a situation where the iranians have part, in our neighbors and the region, israel, and saudi arabia have harden. the u.s. has not hardened, the u.s. under biden would like to get back to this deal. but, it is going to be much harder to do. you talked about that today. >> i did. and i walked out of that briefing really concerned. the amount of time right now that it would take a run to get
a nuclear weapon after they made the decision to do so is right channeling lee short. much shorter than it before the nuclear agreement was signed. you know, we essentially tested the theory of the opponents of the iran deal, because donald trump withdrew from it, he levied unilateral sanctions against iran, he demanded that they come to the table on all of their malevolent behavior, and what happened? everything got worse. iran support for proxies in the middle east increased, iran restarted its nuclear research program, it got much closer to a nuclear weapon, they started shooting at american troops, we tried escalation, and it was a disaster. diplomacy is the only path forward to stop around from getting a nuclear weapon. and interestingly, although israel begins opposed to this deal, our gulf allies who are opposed to it in 2015 or supported, because they do not want a nuclear arms race in the middle east. >> well let's talk about this again, because it is an important issue that is getting
sidelined. senator chris murphy, good to see you. chris murphy is a member of the foreign relations committee, we appreciate your time tonight. up next, former president obama is about to do something he almost never does. we will have details next. we will have details next. ♪ what a wonderful world ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ hey google. ♪ ♪ ♪
♪ ♪ ♪ what can i du with less asthma? with dupixent i can du more... yardwork... teamwork... long walks.... that's how you du more, with dupixent, which helps prevent asthma attacks. dupixent is not for sudden breathing problems. it's an add-on-treatment for specific types of moderate-to-severe asthma that can improve lung function for better breathing in as little as two weeks. and can reduce, or even eliminate, oral steroids. and here's something important. dupixent can cause serious allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis. get help right away if you have rash, shortness of breath, chest pain, tingling or numbness in your limbs. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection,
and don't change or stop your asthma treatments, including steroids, without talking to your doctor. are you ready to du more with less asthma? just ask your asthma specialist about dupixent. need to get your prescriptions refilled? capsule pharmacy can hand deliver your medications - today - for free. go to capsule.com. we handle your insurance. all you have to do is schedule delivery. go to capsule.com to get started in 15 seconds today. not only do centrum multigummies taste great. they help support your immune defenses, too. because a healthy life. starts with a healthy immune system. with vitamins c and d, and zinc. getting out there has never tasted so good. >> before we go, two things for try centrum multigummies.
you to keep your eye on tomorrow, number one nbc news has learned that former president barack obama will be meeting tomorrow with the house democratic caucus. the former president will participate virtually, also
happening tomorrow, democrats from the senate judiciary committee will be meeting with president biden at the white house in person, about a potential supreme court nominee. earlier today, senate judiciary chairman dick durbin said that he and his colleagues would like to get through the nomination process before the recess, and that a nomination for president biden soon would make that process a lot easier. two big meetings for democrats tomorrow, let's see how they pan out. does it for us tonight, we will see you again tomorrow, it is time now for the last word with lawrence o'donnell. lawrence, good evening to you. >> good evening, we have dr. lance joining us again tonight. he joined us early in the trump administration, he was one of the psychiatrists who coauthored the book dangerous case of donald trump. he considered it his duty to warn, as he put, it about the mental health of donald trump. he is going to join us tonight on the question of cold. we heard hakeem jeffries yesterday say it r