a quality under the law will mean for this country as an addition to the court. >> yeah, i kept watching, and i was like, they're gonna overturn roe and two and a half months, and abortion is going to be legal and how the country. and it feels like this monster that looms, along with other things. dahlia, and, janai thank you so much, i appreciate it. that is all in on this monday night, therachelmaddowshowwith ali vote she starts now, good evening, ali. e starts now good evening, al i. >> chris, thank you, i appreciate that coming from you. have yourself a great evening, and we will talk to you tomorrow. thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. coming to you tonight, from warsaw poland. more, saw a busing european capital, of 1.8 million people, in just the last few weeks. a population, grown over 300,000 ukrainian refugees. poland shares a 310 mile border
with ukraine, and of the over 3 million refugees who fled ukraine, since the start of the russian invasion, the overwhelming majority, more than 2 million, have come here to poland. and, even as poland has been the forefront of the humanitarian response to the war in ukraine, by taking in so many refugees, poland's leaders have put themselves at the forefront of the political, and military response, as well. both poland's prime minister, and the leader of poland's ruling party, joined eastern european leaders on a train journey, to kyiv last week, meeting in person with ukraine's president. poland has become, perhaps, the loudest cheerleader for european, and nato solidarity, with ukraine. poland, planning to propose a nato peacekeeping force, to go into ukraine, this week. which is fascinating. because, literally, just to my left side here, a few seconds away, the building, right next
door to where i am, is the presidential palace, in warsaw. eastern european leaders, gathering just a few decades ago, right here, to join forces against nato. in fact, it was after western many was admitted to nato, and may of 1955. the soviet union, scrambled to set up some kind of counter weight to the giant, to western, military alliance. just over one week later, the soviet union, along with delegates from hungary, romania, east germany, czechoslovakia, vogue area, albania, and poland, all, then communist countries, under the sway, and sponsorship of the soviet union, gathered right next door to where i am, at the presidential palace, signing the warsaw pact. check out the news reel from that day. >> leaders of the communist world, meeting in warsaw, to sign the treaty which is their answer to nato. the survey it premiere is on
the platform, when theyshowthemselves to warsaw's thousands. china's defense minister, and russia's general or their, to, clapping, and being clapped. the polish premiere tells of the new military, and political treaty, while the general essence. china is not a member of east communist nato. they want toshowthat they can negotiate from strength. >> the warsaw pact. the anti nato, or, the nato mirror image. the warsaw pact had a closet mirrored nato's article five. an attack on any member nation would be considered an attack on all. the warsaw pact endured for around 30 years, but in 1989, as the berlin wall came down, and communist governments across eastern europe fell, one by one, the members left the
warsaw pact, until it was formally dissolved in 1991. but, nato, the greatest military alliance in the history of the world, took up the slack. all of those warsaw pact countries, ultimately, along with many other former eastern bloc nations, joined nato. but, not ukraine. ukraine has never joined nato. in 2019, it has the constitution to admit itself to, eventually joining nato. of course, russia cited the threat of joining nato, as one of the justifications for its invasion. as far as the nonsensical reasons for the nonsensical attack on ukraine goes, is one that holds almost water. much more during a denazification of ukraine, or the protection of russians inside ukraine, or being subject to this unproven genocide. those are lies. but, russia sphere of ukraine, joining nato, is very real. last week, ukrainian president
zelenskyy appeared to say, he was willing to give up aspirations to nato membership, if it would stop the russian aggression. this weekend, and they say it's nato that needs to say, firmly, one way or another, whether they're ever going to admit ukraine. if they won't, it's fine. ukraine will accept it, and move on. did not expect the protections that membership in nato would except, and that if they accept ukraine, the nato needs to do, it right now. and give ukraine, the military power it needs, before any more ukrainians die. american defense officials say, the russian advance into ukraine remain stalled, and continue to encounter fierce ukrainian resistance. today, pro kremlin tabloid, in russia, publishing, what it said, official russian military defense figures, putting the number of russian troops killed nearly 10,000. now, that would be 20 times the number that russia, has previously, acknowledged. even higher than u.s. estimates. however, that part of the
article, quickly, deleted. impossible to say whether that was a general figure, and appears to publish it, but has taken it down. all we know for certain, is no matter how about the invasion may be going for russia, it is going much, much, much worse, for ukrainians in billions. russia seems to be responding to the military stalemate on the ground, with increasing atrocities. sky news alex crawford, filing this report today, from kyiv. >> the capitals northern suburbs, under attack. the skylines increasingly clouded, after rocket strikes. the russian military, trying to push closer into the city, but they had to get through three small communities in between. one russian checkpoints, the shells land here without warning, causing flurries which ripped through this area. they know that there are the ones not holding the line against the russians.
they've been digging trenches, and bolstering positions. you have already been hit several times. the attacks have left yet more people with homes. workplaces, and businesses, have been left shattered. but, the main supermarket is still operating, despite being shelled earlier. the staff are just wiping down their supplies, and carrying on, regardless. we even know how to protect ourselves, to something's incoming, she says. we lined, out and cover our heads. the sounds of russians nearby, seems constant, once we are here. >> they are nazis, he says. and there is another attack. they wait to hear their landing close by. he was a swimming coach, a few weeks ago. now, everyone here is a bomb expert. >> alex crawford, with the snapshot of how the war is playing out, in one suburb of
the capital. they're also playing out across ukraine, affecting everyone, in every corner of that country, like that swimming coach, who is now tasked with stopping the russian army for marching into kyiv. nbc news, chief foreign correspondent, richard engel, in kyiv, filing this report on the events unfolding in ukraine. >> with russia's advance slowed, to what u.s. officials described as a stalemate, its forces are unleashing more bombardments, for civilian targets. rescue workers, so after a deadly strike in kyiv. this time, on a shopping mall. more homes were also hit. kyiv's mayor says, more than 70 buildings have been destroyed. but, despite the violence, or more likely because of it. ukrainians are, is still, turning out to challenge russian troops. in russian occupied kherson, theyshowprotesters refusing to back down. that is, until, russian troops
opened fire, mostly in the air, to disperse the crowds. kherson is a russian speaking that assume that it would fall easily. the besieged city of mariupol is in the worst of the assault. ukrainian officials today, rejected a russian demand to surrender the city this morning, even after a maternity hospital was hit, and civilian shelters, at a theater, and an art school, were bombed. now, president zelenskyy is preparing ukrainians for worse. playing an air raid siren, telling them not to be afraid, but to get used to it. >> president zelenskyy, delivering what he, called an address to people of ukraine cities. he called out each of ukraine cities, by name, hailing them for their bravery in the face of russian assaults. in particular, he singled out the residents of the russian occupied kherson that, we were just talking about, or russian troops dispersed protesters,
with fire. he said, quote, kherson, hold on, we have all seen new stand. we have seen who you are. we have all felt on how you want to regain your freedom, and quote. joining us now, live from kyiv, this is nbc news chief foreign correspondent, richard engel. richard, thank you for your report, and your excellent reporting you continue to do. i get a sense here on the ground, you are seeing how some of these fights, and resistance are going on the ground, and you also have access to this high level of valuation, that there is a stalemate. tell me how you evaluate that statement against what you are seeing? >> so, right now, we are seeing two kinds of resistance. we are seeing military resistance, which is keeping russian forces from kyiv, and russian forces have been kept back to the northern suburbs of the city, and have not been able to advance and days. so, we are seeing conventional,
military resistance. we are also seeing civil disobedience. we are seeing that in kherson. kherson is one of the places where russians, actually, occupy the city. they patrol, they patrol on foot, they have imposed a shadow government, but the people do not accept it. her son was considered one of the more pro-russian communities, here. before this war began, and i think this is one of the things vladimir putin was counting on, there were deep divides here. divides between east, and west, divides between those who spoke russian, and those who spoke to ukrainian, and her son was considered the closest to russia. as was mariupol. but, if you look at what is happening in mariupol, and if you look at what is happening in kherson, there is real hatred for russia. people are swearing blood oaths. they are leaving the city if they can. they are being strip searched
when they leave mariupol, as the guards check to see if they have some sort of nazi insignia, tattoos, swastikas, on their body. in kherson, they're standing up to gunfire. the russian plan, both from a hearts and minds campaign, if you will, a plan to occupy, and easily pacify areas, that were thought to be pro russia, is not working. and, its conventional military plan, to drive into the cities, is not working, for now. >> let's talk a mariupol at this point. there has been an offer, or a request by russia, that ukraine simply see the mariupol. the ukrainians have rejected that offer, but, the idea, that maybe, vladimir putin is giving up on the idea of taking kyiv, and the government, and would be satisfied by more territorial gains, can you explain that to us? give us context for that. >> so, throughout this conflict,
we are guessing vladimir putin's intentions. often, we were guessing them incorrectly. there was a camp thought that vladimir putin would not invade, and that camp included the ukrainian government. included president zelenskyy, who thought, right until the end, russia would not launch a full scale invasion. then, there was a camp who thought, maybe, putin will take a piece. he would just take that or moss, or maybe, he would take a land bridge to crimea. now, if you want to land bridge to crimea, they would be able to connect the territory of russia, to the crimean peninsula, and to russia, but if you took it over in 2014, they would have to take the city of mariupol, and kherson, and a few other areas in that southern region, along the black coast, in the sea of azov. from putin's perspective, that would give him a win, it would allow him to secure crimea, and secure the water supply, to
crimea, which also flows through that area. but, will that be enough? if people misjudged putin, the first time, and i think would be foolish to allow ourselves to be fooled twice, and assume that we would just be satisfied with a slice in the east. there are especially these troops where they continue to dig in. a new satellite is showing that troops are, still, mobilizing around the borders of the country. it is not at all clear that they want to, only, take mariupol, and somehow be satisfied with, that and walk away. i think those calculations we can see from the beginning, but now that he is in this war, it is unclear. >> let's talk about -- at the beginning, there was also a calculation, and potentially, not officially, we may have heard that there is an offer, or planned by the u.s., to get a lot of maryland ski out of kyiv.
either to western ukraine, a place like lviv, or somewhere else made of unsafe or, or even to poland to have a government in exile he. refused to leave kyiv, as it is members of parliament, and government officials. kyiv still stands, and they are still in kyiv, and you are still in kyiv. we know that there continues to be assault on the city. there is a deadly assault overnight at a shopping mall. what is the situation on the ground where you are in kyiv? there was also a big intelligence failure that we should acknowledge. the u.s. correctly predicted that vladimir putin would to some sort of invasion, but the intelligence failure was that they thought the ukrainian government was going to imminently collapse. and that zelenskyy would have to become some figure operating in exile. when, now, he's still here, is leading an effective resistance. you asked what's the mood here in kyiv is. it is a very strange city right
now. there are 2 million people here, according to the mayor, give or take. most of them are men because men are not allowed to leave this country. if you notice where you are, lots of refugees are women, children, and the elderly. the men are still here. there's no real work, so to speak. nothing is open. there's no ability to shop, so there's a lot of men in their houses with no families, living on crackers on salami. there's no alcohol in the city, it's been dry by the mayor. everyone is participating in some form in the civil defense. people walk around in militarized clothing with colored arm bands around their upper arm, either yellow or blue toshowthat they are loyal to the army. there's checkpoints on the streets. you are asked for your papers, although every time you go through the checkpoint it is --
it harkens back to an earlier time when you are asked to see your papers, every place you go in a city full of men bracing for war. >> yeah. well said, richard, thank you, please stay safe. richard engel is in kyiv. as you mentioned some of theshow, there are new warnings that the shore could drag on. a senior nato intelligence officials as both sides on average of a stalemate, with ukrainian forces preventing russians of making gains, but putin showing absolutely no sign of backing down. it's a particularly ominous assessment as nato allies are set to meet this week. likely, against the backdrop of a protracted the war in ukraine that will put considerably more ukrainian civilian lives at risk. and it's a war that the cranium president zelenskyy's arguing, could have been avoided altogether. saying this weekend, that quote, if we were a nato member, a war wouldn't have started.
and further calling on nato to give ukraine some sort of clarity as to whether or not they will ever be able to join the alliance. joining us now is how they're gone, the president of the german fund. he is also a former deputy officer, where she co-led the u.s. effort to enlarge nato. how, they're good to see you, thanks for joining us. certainly, the growth of nato and the beginning, and that subsequent to the collapse of the warsaw pact on the fall of the berlin wall, it's not clear to most of our viewers how these former warsaw fact countries came to be nato countries, and why some of them didn't. what's the cliffsnotes version of thought, and what zelenskyy is asking for? >> the cliffsnotes is that the washington treaty, which established the north atlantic treaty organization in 1949. there's an article ten that
says, membership is available and open to those european countries that can assume the responsibilities of becoming a nato member. so, this is why nato enlargement has proceeded since 1949 upton now, 30 members of nato. obviously, as nato expanded, becomes what challenging to make decisions at 30. but it is a strong and vibrant alliance. now, the members not want to join nato. yes, nato members have to accept them, and we closely scrutinize every countries application. they have to have a strong defense. they have to have strong democracies, and be able to accept the responsability. so it's not just to let us, and it is a process. it is open to all european countries like annex of those responsibilities.
the thing is, is very difficult to bring in a member we have such a dramatic situation at hand. but i will tell, you love vladimir putin is doing is making more countries want to join nato. neutral countries like sweden, like finland, because the russians are really threatening their freedom of choice to join alliances. so the more threatening vladimir putin becomes, the more countries that want to seek the security umbrella of nato. so he's creating these conditions in 2014, the ukrainian constitution ensure that ukraine was a neutral country by annexing crimea, and invading them boss in 2014. those vladimir putin who forced the fenian government to changes constitution to want to be more closely aligned with nato. so again, moscow asked accepted strategic failures. the more it takes these actions, the more countries want to join nato. >> that was such a great, crystal clear explanation about why countries join, how they join.
thank you for the. but now i want to get your reaction to the other thing the president zones is that over the weekend, arguing that, quote, if we were a nato member, this war would not have started. these were his words. is he right, with this who are never taken place? we russia not done it if ukraine were a nato member, because, really, the second part of my question is that countries like poland do for russian expansion. if they feel that if they can get away with ukraine, the russians can continue to move further west and take other countries. is that possible? >> i think there's some truth to what's president zelenskyy said, because you look at the three baltic states of estonia, latvia, lithuania, poland is another example. when these countries join nato, they did have a strong sense of defense, of deterrence, of reassurance that should russia become the russia that it is today, and i aggressor state, they would be protected. this is what president
zelenskyy's asking for ukraine right now. the challenge is, it's the geopolitical conditions that allow this membership to proceed. so, we have to geostrategic openings particularly in 1999 abroad and poland, hungary, and the czech republic. in 2002, the one i was involved, then they brought in the baltic states, as well as slovenia, remind me, a bulgaria. the even continue to large past that point. we have that opportunity to do it. but now we have a very different russia. and so we have to bring that into consideration. but look, don't not join is not done. the geopolitical window will open, and this is where we have to have the closest possible relationship between nato and ukraine. between nato and other former soviet states like the republic of georgia, because when the geopolitical window opens, we want their candidacies to be strong and to be in the best position for a nato and the
european union, if that's possible, to continue to expand eastward. that's why mr. putin fears. this is really not, though, it's not about membership in nato. it's not about membership in the european union. well vladimir putin fears is the freedom of choice, and the dignity of the individual. he cannot allow that in russia and retain has power if ukraine becomes a thriving, prosperous, and secure democracy. that is his greatest threat. and membership in nato, or membership in the european union just represents that freedom of choice, and that dignity. that's why mr. putin will not allow to stand in ukraine. ice trying to destroy ukraine before he allows them to join that family of democracies. >> heather, thanks, as always, we are much smarter for hearing or analysis. how they're connally, we appreciate you being with us. well, perhaps the hardest hit
places of all in ukraine right now is the city of mariupol. tonight, we're gonna hear from some of the people who managed to escape, and the russian scorched earth tactics in that city are raising questions about the man behind this increasingly brutal invasion, and how far he's going to go to get what he wants. more on that, a heads. on that, a heads. age-related macular degeneration may lead to severe vision loss. and if you're taking a multivitamin alone, you may be missing a critical piece. preservision. preservision areds 2 contains the only clinically proven nutrient formula recommended by the national eye institute
to help reduce the risk of moderate to advanced amd progression. "preservision is backed by 20 years of clinical studies" "and its from the eye experts at bausch and lomb" so, ask your doctor about adding preservision. and fill in a missing piece of your plan. like i did with preservision"
and it's easier than ever to get your projects done right. with angi, you can connect with and see ratings and reviews. and when you book and pay throug you're covered by our happiness check out angi.com today. angi... and done. these are photos from the

chechen capital city of grozny. completely flattened, burned, and destroyed, after russian captured it in february of 2000. putin's victory there, helping him win the russian presidency, the next month. the insurgency that followed would, keep russian forces in chechnya for almost a decade. this is drone footage, from 2019, of the largest, most populated city and syria, aleppo. one of the most beautiful, and historic cities in the world, until russian support, and, in particular, russian airstrikes,
started in 2015, to help the syrian president, bashar al-assad, regain control of the city. not by capturing it, conventionally, put by destroying it. this is footage out of the ukrainian port city of mariupol, from friday. hundreds of thousands of civilians, still there, suffering through russian bombardments, and desperate for basic supplies. the washington post, with ukrainian president zelenskyy's chief of staff said, what is happening to mariupol is a sign, of what's to come in the rest of the country. quote, this is how russia wages wars. it did in grozny, in 1999, and syria, in 2015. now, it is doing it in ukraine. this is a scorched earth campaign, to wipe ukraine, its people, its country, its history, off of the map, and quote. russian forces have surrounded the city of mariupol, not letting food, or supplies in. today, offering humanitarian corridors out of the city, only in exchange for surrender.
and the rest of the country, russian forces have stalled, and no longer gaining new ground. one u.s. official, telling the wall street journal yesterday, u.s. military assessments, believe that russia is reverting to siege tactics. it is no longer can focus on conventional gains, like advancing into more territory, and are now focused on a war of attrition. using brutality, starvation, and cold, to get ukrainians to give in. harming civilians, to achieve military aims, is a war crime. but, it's uniquely effective one. senior officials in the biden administration, also telling the wall street journal, the administration's new assessment to president putin's intention, is he no longer intends to seize kyiv, but, to compel kyiv to accept russian claims, and in southern, or eastern territories, to secure a land bridge in russia, and the crimean peninsula, and quote. but, this is the ten shull off-ramps, the supposed plan b,
really, is it something that can be trusted, let alone accepted? or is it just appeasement of vladimir putin? putin never settle for anything less than you ukrainians? should ukrainians, or any less in the world, settle for less than a full russian retreat from ukraine? >> it is a professor of history at new york university, and it's an authority figure, on authoritarian's, professor, good to see you again, thank you for being with us. i want to ask you for this comparison, that has been made to grozny, in chechnya, to aleppo and syria. what is this kind of scorched earth warfare portend for ukraine? >> all of these atrocities make use of chemical weapons, chlorine, sara and gas, in syria. as well as bombing civilians, and hospitals. now, what we see is atrocities, putin sees as a record of
success. he has been doing this for 20 years. he has paid no big price, domestically, as they got a boost from the very beginning, when you're pointing out he was coming into the presidency. this cemented his strongman tactics, his fame as a strongman. he also paid no price, internationally, when he annexed crimea. there was sanctions that was a boost of popularity for him. so, what we see is atrocities, he sees as a record of success. things that have benefited russia, and him, personally. >> unfortunately, the result of that is at the brutality, here, is the point. well it is not vladimir putin, personally committing these atrocities, it is a russian troops. how do these autocrats, these people like vladimir putin, convince massive swaths of their population to take up
arms, to be this brutal on their behalf? >> i mean, putin has been having this demonization of the west, demonization of democracy, and the kind of siege mentality, ideologically, against the west. he has presented himself as the only defender of these ideologies, and habits, that can lead to ruin. there is countless speeches, in which he says, at least a moral depravity, to weakness, to the end of civilization. now, that is one thing, but another thing is sending troops in. having them know, increasingly, that he does not care about them. in fact, we talked before about if there is a prolonged war, a war of attrition, affecting russians too. now, we know not only does he have no moral, or humanitarian sentiment, he also does not care about his people. so, a war of attrition, perfectly, is fine to him.
but we know, russian soldiers, already, are feeling a little deceived, from reports of pow statements, and the more that this goes on, it is unclear what their morale, and fighting will, will be. >> i was talking to richard angle about this earlier in theshow, this idea that they don't go for kyiv, but if the ukrainians give up mariupol, in some of the cities, in kherson, and give them the land bridge to crimea, putin might take that. do you think there is a likelihood of putin accepting an off ramp, or is he just stalling, one of the objective remains to take control of ukraine? >> it is more likely that he is stalling. he would like to say face, but he couldn't afford to come home with a little more than he started with. because, as you know ali, he
embarked on this whole thing because he was worried about feeling insecure about his power at home. so, if he has a humiliation, or a defeat, because look at what it is cost russia. russia is a pariah. the economy has tanked. all of the things we know. so, if he has some kind of humiliation, it could lead him to be in a worse position that home that is why the more the work goes on and if, you think back for russia, the more likely that he may be to resort to non conventional, such as chemical weapons, because he desperately need to defeat. the irony, is that zelenskyy, who is in the state of siege, has a much better relationship, and much more stable position versus his own people, in that putin does of his. >> surprisingly so. there is a lot of people, inside, and outside ukraine,
who thought that volodymyr zelenskyy is not, exactly, the kind of meet this moment. it is with some amazement, that the entire world was watching how this unfolds, and what's performances been like professor thank you us. a professor of history is here a city. something else historic happened today. stay with us. stay with us
if you have type 2 diabetes or high blood pressure you're a target for chronic kidney disease. you can already have it and not know it. if you have chronic kidney disease your kidney health could depend on what you do today. ♪far-xi-ga♪ farxiga is a pill that works in the kidneys to help slow the progression of chronic kidney disease. farxiga can cause serious side effects including dehydration, urinary tract or genital yeast infections in women and men, and low blood sugar. ketoacidosis is a serious side effect that may lead to death. a rare, life-threatening bacterial infection in the skin of the perineum could occur.
stop taking farxiga and call your doctor right away if you have symptoms of this bacterial infection, an allergic reaction, or ketoacidosis. and don't take it if you are on dialysis. take aim at chronic kidney disease by talking to your doctor and asking about farxiga. if you can't afford your medication, astrazeneca may be able to help. ♪far-xi-ga♪ realtor.com's draw a map feature helped us find what we wanted, where we wanted. so we could finally buy our first "big boi house." big boi house. big boi foyer!
big boi marble. big boi quartz. word? realtor.com to each their home. before i got aura, twenty-four of my online accounts were hacked! he uses the same password for everything. i didn't want to deal with it. but aura digital security just dealt with it. what were we worried about again? shopping on public wifi is sketchy. but with aura digital security, my devices are protected in like 3 minutes. it's time to protect your life online with aura's all-in-one digital security. try for free today at aura.com what was that password anyway? ew. ♪ it's the most wonderful time of the year ♪ get fast relief of your worst allergy symptoms, including nasal congestion, with powerful claritin d, so you can breathe better. feel the clarity and make today the most wonderful time of the year. this image of a wounded, claritin d.

pregnant women being moved on a stretcher has been a symbol of the toll of russia's aggression. the deadly bombing of the maternity hospital was one of the first atrocities documented there, drawing worldwide attention and outrage. that mother and her baby later died. the people who shared that image with the world where the only international journalists left in that city. a photographer and video journalist for the associated press. those journalists said that the people of the city begging them to tell the outside world of all was happening in mariupol. they begged them. they said the doctors pleaded with us the phone families, bringing their own dead and wounded, and use their dwindling generator power for our cameras. no one knows what's going on in our city, they set. the reporting made them targets. the journalists later told the ap, the russians were hunting us down. that a list of names, including
ours, and they were closing in. luckily, ukrainian soldiers found them and extracted them from the city first. and since then, we've seen more those dating images out of mariupol. ukrainian officials accuse russia of bombing and art school over the weekend, where as many as 400 people were sheltering. dropping them under the rubble. these before, that there was the warning of a theater, or more than 1300 people were taking shelter. last week, president-elect skis that the rescue effort there was ongoing, but unclear where it stands today because it's hard to get firsthand accounts out of mariupol. and what we have learned is apocalyptic. a new report from the financial times details how some people in the city are so desperately thirsty, that they have, quote, drained water from radiators. collected and melted snow, also an also scoured local parks first freshwater streams. i wasn't in the spoke to said that unfortunately cues would form at the streams, and that was a perfect target for russian missiles. in addition, the streams also
fell out of favor because they quickly became contaminated with corpses. it's those desperate stories that are showing the outside world the horrors of what's happening in mariupol. and, now we're getting more hand accounts with important work of the focus, a senior crisis researcher and human rights watch. he recently spoke to 32 people who had fled the city. here are some of their accounts. we want to warn, you these descriptions are disturbing. one man said that three women were on their way to buy bread, when an attack took place, killing one of the women, during offer hands, and seriously injuring the two others. one man described how his neighbor was killed, quote, he was pierced by pieces of metal, including does heart. and he died because of the continued attacks, his family's long been able to graham yet, so his body is still in a van outside. joining us now is the writer.
miss vallow, thank you so much for being here, and thank you so much for bearing witness by bringing us these accounts. they are devastating. i'm trying to get a sense from these people who you talk to who are out of mariupol, we'll lifeless be like for those who are inside. and for whom we cannot bear witness right now. >> absolutely. the people we spoke to are the lucky few. there are people who had personal vehicles and were able to actually make it out of the city. humanitarian corridors were broken down time and again. and so, you haven't seen an organized full scale evacuation that's allowed the majority of the population out. everyone we spoke to had been sheltering in basements with dozens of other people who stayed behind, because they don't have cars. they don't have a way out. and as you said, they describe to us flushing out their heating systems to get access to water.
going to, springs melting snow. and the people we spoke to all said that food stocks were really dwindling when they left other people behind in the basements that they have been sheltering in. >> every time i meet refugees who are coming across the border, their time with a story about someone who stayed behind. they then have money, they don't have the ability to leave. obviously, if you're in a bomb that city, you cancel your property. you wonder when this is going to, and you wonderfully better. but in mariupol, there's a situation that is not the availability of water, and it's winter, despite the fact that it feels like springs are some people. is the cold season, and people don't have heating. they're off power. we met people who say they can't get in touch with their relatives back in mariupol because there's no service. you are down to few dual, and you're damned if you're a doll, when you're in mariupol. >> absolutely, and i think the point you make about those left
behind and how they are affected particularly by the lack of electricity is significant. for those people that we interviewed, most of them, before they made it, out spent two weeks hiding in basements and sheltering from this ongoing shelling all around them, just hoping that they wouldn't be injured. and eventually, they would be able to make it out. the most haunting stories that i heard were actually from older people. people with disabilities. for these people, they couldn't make it down to the basements. so they were in their apartment buildings. i spoke to a man in his 80s who was on his sixth floor apartment. another couple who are on the third floor apartment. and for them, there was no way down. and they describe to me how they essentially spent those two weeks sitting on their couch in a room with blown out windows, nothing blocking the cold outside, as you said. it was below zero degrees celsius. and they were sitting there
freezing. and they were just watching the bombs and the explosions going off outside of their windows. absolutely terrified that any moment would be their last. >> terrified that a moment would be their last. people are living like this. thank you for doing what you're doing, she's a senior crisis researcher at human rights watch. we appreciate your time tonight. all, right up next tonight, while americans watched the horror of what's happening in ukraine, on capitol hill today, much more positive side, as confirmation hearings began for the supreme court nominee ketanji brown-jackson, stay with us. ketanji brown-jackson, sta with us. with us. erty butchemel... cut. liberty mu... line? cut. liberty mutual customizes your car insurance so you only pay for what you need. cut. liberty m... am i allowed to riff? what if i come out of the water? liberty biberty... cut. we'll dub it. liberty mutual customizes your car insurance
so you only pay for what you need. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ thanks to realtor.com's home alerts we were able to see the newest homes on the market, super fast. so we could finally buy our first "big boi house." big boi house. big boi kitchen! big boi waterfall shower! big boi crawl space. big boi sold sign, big boi logo. realtor.com to each their home. ♪ what you see (what you see) ♪ ♪ is what you get, (is what you get) ♪ ♪ i said what you see (what you see) ♪ ♪ is what you can get now, baby (is what you get) ♪ ♪ ♪ inner voice (kombucha brewer): as a new small business owner, i find it useful to dramatically stare out of the window... ...so that no one knows i'm secretly terrified inside. inner voice (sneaker shop owner): i'm using hand gestures and pointing... ...so no one can tell i'm unsure about my business finances. inner voice (furniture maker): i'm constantly nodding... ...because i know everything about furniture... ...but with the business side... ...i'm feeling a little lost. quickbooks can help.
an easy way to get paid, pay your staff and know where your business stands. new business? no problem. yeah. success starts with intuit quickbooks. my mental health was much better. my mind was in a good place. but my body was telling a different story. i felt all people saw were my uncontrolled movements. some mental health meds can cause tardive dyskinesia, or td, and it's unlikely to improve without treatment. ingrezza is a prescription medicine to treat adults with td movements in the face and body. it's the only treatment for td that's one pill, once-daily, with or without food. ingrezza 80 mg is proven to reduce td movements in 7 out of 10 people. people taking ingrezza can stay on their current dose of most mental health meds. don't take ingrezza if you're allergic to any of its ingredients. ingrezza may cause serious side effects, including sleepiness. don't drive, operate heavy machinery, or do other dangerous activities until you know how ingrezza affects you. other serious side effects include potential heart rhythm problems and abnormal movements. it's nice people focus more on me.
ask your doctor about ingrezza, #1 prescribed for td. learn how you could pay as little as zero dollars at ingrezza.com. as little as zero dollars when you're driving a lincoln, stress seems to evaporate into thin air. which leaves us to wonder, where does it go? does it shoot off like a rocket? or float off into the clouds? daddy! or maybe it takes on a life all its own. perhaps you'll come up with your own theory of where the stress goes. behind the wheel of a lincoln is a mighty fine place to start. ♪ it's the most wonderful time of the year ♪ get fast relief of your worst allergy symptoms, including nasal congestion, with powerful claritin d, so you can breathe better. feel the clarity and make today the most wonderful time of the year. claritin d. why do people who live with generalized myasthenia gravis want a new treatment option? because we want to be able to get up and get ready for work.
because the animals need to be cared for, and we like taking care of them. because we want to go out to dinner with our friends. because, in family photos, we want to be able to smile. a new fda-approved treatment for adults with generalized myasthenia gravis could help them do more of the daily activities they care about. to learn more, go to now4gmg.com and talk to your neurologist. with unitedhealthcare medicare advantage plans... ...you can take advantage of $0 virtual visits. - wow. - uh-huh. $0 copays on virtual visits for primary care and mental health. take advantage now. wow! does your appointment have any meaning to the civil rights movement? >> well, i think that the people with whom i work, within the civil rights movement, over the last 20 years, are pleased
to hear of the presidents appointment. i think for black americans, all over the country, of course, it is another indication that america is about to make good on its promise of equal opportunity, for all americans. >> president lyndon b. johnson, nominated to the judiciary in 1966. at the end of the summer, she became the first black woman to serve on the federal bench, in the history of the united states. but, by that point, judge baker motley had decades of experience, litigating civil rights cases. while working is the only woman lawyer, of the naacp legal defense fund. the protegee, of thurgood marshall, who went on to become the first black supreme court justice. she wrote the original complaint of brown versus board of education. she represented clients, like martin was there came to an, year after his arrest in birmingham, in 1963.
and more than 1000 students who skipped class to protest segregation and burning him, under the threat of police violence. motley was the first black woman, to argue cases before the supreme court. she did it ten times, she won nine of those ten times. that is the story, and legal legacy, of supreme court nominee, ketanji brown jackson, invoked today, when she spoke to the senate judiciary committee, on day one of her confirmation hearings. >> during this hearing, i would hope that you can see how much i love our country. and, the constitution. the rights that make us free. i stand on the shoulders of so many, who have come before me, including judge constance baker motley, who is the first african american woman to be appointed to the federal bench, and with whom i share a
birthday. like judge motley, i have dedicated my career to ensuring that the words, engraved on the front of the supreme court building, equal justice under law, are a reality, and not just an ideal. >> ketanji brown-jackson, the first woman nominated to the supreme court, spoke to the committee for ten minutes, about her personal, and professional background, and her dedication to equal justice under the law. she spoke only after several hours of, the remarks by community members, which featured prominent republicans, loving a range of critiques, as she sat, quietly, listening. complaints about her previous work as a public defender, her membership on a school board, and the fact that the president biden did not choose a different black woman to be his nominee. other senators, reminding the room, judge jackson stood before the committee before. she faced senate confirmation hearings in 2009, for her nomination to the u.s. sentencing commission.
in 2012, for her nomination to the federal district court for washington, and again, last, april for her nomination to the u.s. court of appeals for the d. c circuit. she was confirmed, each time, to the voice quote, but but recently by a nine-foot margin, with three republican, supporting her nomination. she also clerk for justice breyer, just as she seeks to replace. with that extensively will resume, she could make this assurance to the committee today. >> on the day of his supreme court nomination, justice breyer said, quote, what is law supposed to do, seen as a whole? it is supposed to allow all people. all people. to live together, in a society, where they have so many different views, so many different needs. to live together, in a way that is more harmonious. that is better.
so that they can work, productively, together. and quote. if i am confirmed, i commit to you, i will work productively to support, and defend, the constitution. and this grand experiment of american democracy, that has endured, over the past 246 years. >> the hearing will resume tomorrow, at 9 am. we will be right back. right back.
entresto is the number one heart failure brand prescribed by cardiologists and has helped over one million people. it was proven superior at helping people stay alive and out of the hospital. don't take entresto if pregnant; it can cause harm or death to an unborn baby. don't take entresto with an ace inhibitor or aliskiren, or if you've had angioedema with an ace or arb. the most serious side effects are angioedema, low blood pressure, kidney problems, or high blood potassium. ask your doctor about entresto.

thanks to realtor.com's home alerts we were able to see the newest homes on the market, super fast. so we could finally buy our first "big boi house." big boi house. big boi kitchen! big boi waterfall shower! big boi crawl space. big boi sold sign, big boi logo. realtor.com to each their home. at xfinity, we live and work in the same neighborhood as you. big boi sold sign, big boi logo. we're always working to keep you connected to what you love. and now, we're working to bring you the next generation of wifi. it's ultra-fast. faster than a gig. supersonic wifi. only from xfinity. it can power hundreds of devices with three times the bandwidth. so your growing wifi needs will be met. supersonic wifi only from us... xfinity. well, those are for us the
night. we'll see you again tomorrow from poland. it's time now for the last word with lawrence o'donnell. good evening, my friend. >> good evening, ali. i'm so glad you reported on constance baker motley e who i judge jackson quoted, and praised today in her opening remark