night. therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. good evening,rachel. >> good evening, chris. >> good evening, chris and the party announced that they would march into the nation's capitol. they would march on. the prime minister at the time knew if they were going to have a march on rome, this meant they were going to take over. they were going to try to mount a physician, facist coup. he wanted to call it the military to defend rome, to stop the coup. the king at the time wouldn't agree to that. so the military wasn't called up to defend the capitol and instead what the king did is he caved to the fascists. he invited the leader of the
fascists to form a government, to become the new prime minister and head of the fascists enthusiastically agreed and the tens of thousands of his supporters who he had threatened would march on rome to seize power in a coup. they didn't march on rome to seize power. instead, they marched on rome in a victory parade because just the threat of them had made it so that he was handed power bloodlessly. that is how the fascists took power in italy 100 years ago next month. they threatened to take power by force, didn't have to, because they intimidated everybody into giving them power ahead of their march be on rome. that's the famous march on rome, october 1922. the centennial of that event next month. what happened in 1922, things in italy changed pretty quickly. within three years, by 1925, italy was a one-party state.
within three years after that, by 1928, mussolini abolished elections all together. it was a full on fascist dictatorship. not to spoil the plot or anything, but as you may know, things ended poorly for everyone. we think of the world of world war ii here in the united states, we think of it as august 1945, the u.s. dropped atopic bombs on japan in august, japan surrendered a few days later. japan was just one of the axis powers. things ended in europe, april 25, 1945, italy celebrates its
liberation day, the day they were liberated from fascist rule and nazi occupation. april 25, 1945, the fascist leader who had been in power since 1922, benito mussolini, tried to flee the country starting april 25th, 1945. within two days he was caught. he was disguised as a nazi soldier. he was caught near lake como, north of milan. he tried to flee starting the 25th. they caught him on the 27th. they held him overnight and then early in the morning on the side of a rural road on april 28th they shot him dead. and then for something i think more than indignity, something more than just the end, they didn't just leave him on the side of the road. they threw mussolini's corpse into a truck and drove it back to milan. now, i have to worn you, if you
are squeamish or if you have kids watching, you may not want to see this. i am going toshowthis for a second and only once. if you don't want to see it, i understand. this is what they did with him in milan. hung his corpse upside down from the feet off of a metal girder. and they left it there. hanging in the square in milan, him and his mistress, other top fascist officials who were executed alongside him. believe it or not, it got worse from there. the u.s. military ordered his body taken down, autopsied, cause of death, not hard to figure out at that point. they buried him in an unmarked grave that wasn't unmarked enough. in 1946 a fascist supporter found him in that unmarked grave, dug him up and stole his body whereupon they started shuttling that corpse all over the place. they dragged it so all over the place one report suggests it lost a leg along the way. but they ended up hiding his body such as it was in a monastery for more than a decade until the mid 1950s. 1957 they decided to dig him up again at that monastery and put
him in his family's tomb in his hometown. so now fascist the world over can have little fascist pilgrimages to the final resting place of old peg-legged mussolini. it didn't not end well for anyone, let alone him. supporters of that dictatorship, supporters of that variety of fascism, they don't only have the mausoleum to remember mussolini by because the year after he was killed, right around the time that his body was getting dug up and shuttled around by his supporters, a year after the end of world war ii, 1946, a man who served as chief of staff in mussolini's government founded a new political party to carry on the
spirit of mussolini. carry on the mussolini dream. by then, of course, italy had lost world war ii, mussolini had come to the end he came to. it was illegal to form a fascist party. when they founded this new party to keep alive the spirit of mussolini, they couldn't use as the symbol of the new party the symbol he used, that cluster of rods that he used as the symbol of fascism from his day. they picked a different symbol ashes flame colored red, green and white, the colors of the italian flag. it's suppose to represent the eternal flame maintained at the grave of mussolini. the grave of mussolini which is the pilgrimage site for fascists worldwide. mussolini is dead, really dead in april 1945. the guy who was the chief of staff in mussolini's in 1946 forms a new party to keep
fascism, the spirit of mussolini alive. that guy who had been the chief of staff in the mussolini government, he ran that party for years. the next head of the party after him said publicly that mussolini was the greatest statesman of the 20th century. the party chief after him declared his party, quote, we are all heirs of mussolini. they weren't hiding their light under a bush. this is the party designed to keep the legacy of mussolini alive. but that guy who said we are all the heirs of el duce, that was the last head of that party before now. the head of that party now today just claimed victory for her party and she is about to become the next prime minister of italy. here she is with steve bannon. here she is doing interviews from washington, d.c., when she was invited during the trump years to the national prayer breakfast, invited by
republicans. here she is at cpac. this is this year, just a few months ago. >> and that's exactly what they want. a right-wing on a leash. irrelevant and trained as a monkey. but you know what? we're not monkeys. we are not even rhinos. we won the battle. they are zoo. [ cheers and applause ] we will not be a party of their inner circles. yay! everybody stands up at cpac and collapse for that. before today the highest profile member of her party was benito mussolini's granddaughter, who
happens to be on the city council in rome now. but now today we know that the head of mussolini's post-fascist party in italy is not taking a city council job. she is about to take over and run that country. like i said, they are not hiding their light under a bushel, they are not subtle about this. in her younger days in an interview from french tv. >> i think mussolini was a good politician. everything he did, he did for italy. now she will be the new leader of italy. kind of a gangbusters way to commemorate the 100-year anniversary of mussolini's march on rome, right? kind of on the nose. but i think it's important to remember that these things don't
always work. back in 1922, mussolini's success with his march on rome, the fascist coup he was able to pull off in italy. >> at the time that was so successful it seems like it could be replicated elsewhere, inspired a guy in germany to do the same thing in bavaria. the same approach, ashowof force, a small giant cadre trying to take over through pure intimidation. he tried the beer haul pitch. that was november 1923 they tried that. but even though it worked in rome, in bavaria it didn't work. the dude running that effort got arrested, was tried and convicted, was sentenced to five years in prison and released after serving about nine months. during his nine months in jail he wrote a book called "mein
kampf." he said all the time he had to think about how he was going to seize power for good the next time, which he did. incidentally, historians are pretty sure that hitler was informed as to what happened to mussolini right before he died. in that one fateful week in 1945, you have got mussolini trying to flee the country on the 25th. you have him shot on the 28th. you have got him strung up upside down in milan the 29th and then it is the 30th, the very next day, when hitler killed himself in his bunker. and maybe learning what happened to mussolini is part of what led to his decision to do that. but even though both germany and italy were defeated in world war ii, both germany and italy surrendered, and the fascist leaders of those countries died within 48 hours of each other, coincidentally or not, germany subsequently, famously, went through an aggressive decades-long painful process of de-nazification. plumbing the depths of why their country went that direction, committing to the practical realities they can never do anything like that again. that happened in germany, but no other country in europe, including italy, went through a
process like that. so we are at this capital moment right now where history keeps telling us the last time such and such happened is during very, very, very dark times from the last century. it is, i know, uncomfortable to talk about this park of history, the second world war and fascism of that time. the reason we have to talk about it is not to make an allegory between then and today. it's history on its own terms. mussolini was the fascist dictator of italy and this is the party founded by his supporters and his staffers after his death. that as of today is now going to rule italy again. and this is, obviously, rattling everyone this side of steve bannon and steve pack. they think it's delightful. everybody else is back of the
envelope tallying this up, right? you look at the leaders congratulating giorgia meloni on her win in italy. viktor orban in hungary. great hero of the american right and fox news, right? he runs hungary where the european parliament says he has effectively end real democracy. we have the law and justice party in poland, which is following the same playbook to do the same thing that orban has done in hungary, this time in poland. marie le pen, the fascist leader in fans who came close to winning the french presidency against emanuel macron. the far right party that won the second highest share of the vote in sweden, the party literally founded by neo-nazis and skinheads that may be part of the swedish government. and putin running a fascist dictatorship that is not only treating its own people in unspeakable ways, but now
bursting out of the borders, invading neighbors, taking territories away from countries which is the first time that happened in europe, sorry to say, world war ii. in russia tomorrow they will announce the so-called results of these sham little votes that they are holding in parts of ukraine. ukraine has pushed russia way back on the battlefield, so in areas that russian troops can still operate, the kremlin decided they are going to declare democracy to be in effect and they are going to hold a vote, a real good real fair vote at the point of a gun where they have already proclaimed the result of the vote will be that ukrainians want to be taken over by russia. these sham referendums they are doing they will announce the
results tomorrow. they are patently ridiculous. there is no sense which these are real or legitimate. elections. they will use fake votes to do two things. to justify moving the border, to justify taking these parts of this other country, taking parts of ukraine and declaring that these are now part of russia instead. that's one of the things they are doing with this set of sham reverend a, these fake votes in eastern ukrainian. and to make a mockery of democracy, right? make is it seem like elections are fake. hey, you in the west, you say voting makes things legitimate. are you going to criticize our
democracy we thought you loved voting. we are following the desires of the people. so take a sort of back of the envelope tally in terms of how we are heading. as a world, in terms of authoritarian and fascist forms of government versus democracy. one side is winning right now. in our country, we are six weeks out as of tomorrow from our first big national election since the party of the ousted right-wing president tried to maintain power by force, by a mass assault on the u.s. capitol from his supporters. it was just two years ago this past week in the run-up to that 2020 election when trump started saying outright he would not accept the results of that election unless he won. that was a crazy benchmark for american politics at the time.
it's now the new normal not just for him, but political candidates of his party. hundreds of candidates are standing for office six weeks from now on the premise that the last election result from 2020 shouldn't have counted and maybe the next shouldn't either. let's see how it turns out. and i think we think of this as a sort of tactical radicalism on the part of trump-era republicans. a threat to the, you know, the technical nuts and bolts, you know, first tuesday in july system by which we pick winners by voting. but it's actually a simpler problem than that, which i think you can see more easily when you see it happening in other countries. and it is. and when you can see what changes in other countries republicans here are cheering for abroad, and, yes, i think it is easier to see when you see when it has happened before, what this is descended from in history because no longer respecting election results isn't just about messing with elections themselves. it's about a different kind of governance, a different kind of power. if they do not want your vote to determine who is in power, that means they don't want to have to use power to try to meet your needs. i'm just -- i'll say that one more time. if they to not want it to be your vote that determines who is in power, it means that they don't want to have to use power to try to meet your needs. to try to earn your vote.
yes, this is about messing with elections. yes, this is about minority rule instead of majority rule. fundamentally, as the simplest level, this is the big thing that history tells us about, right? this is the thing that is easier to see in other countries than in our own. but this is a very simple thing. it is about separating power from the preferences of the people. instead, just ruling over the people by force for their own purposes and to meet their own needs instead of the needs of the people. if you are trying to get and hold power by force and intimidation and not because the people want you there, that doesn't end well for anyone. not just in history, not just as a political abstraction. but in terms of how we live and what the prospects are for our families, right? what are the prospects for you and for your future and for your kids and their future? whether or not you care about how it's gone in history. whether or not you care about how it's gone in history when the antecedents to these folks
got in power. whether or not you care about majority rule or minority rule as concepts, the isms at the heart of these discussions. this is about your life. in a practical, everyday sense, if there is a party trying to cast doubt on elections as the way we choose who is in power, they want to stay in power regardless of elections. they want to stay in power without your consent and without your ability to remove them, which means they do not want to serve you. and that means if you want government to do anything at all to make your family's life materially better, more stable, more dignified, this is a flashing red siren about the abandonment of that task. and it is sometimes easier to see that in far away countries than it is here and close up and sometimes easier to see it in history so we can recognize how it both leads to and rhymes with what we are going through today. joining us now is my friend
david korn, the washington bureau chief for mother jones. he has been marinating in history. his new excellent book "american psychosis." david, thank you for writing this book and thank you for being here. i am sorry i haven't been here enough to have you on when it came out tonight. i am glad you are here tonight. >> thanks,rachel. i appreciate your respect for history. talking about what happened in italy this past few days over the 100-year stretch, you see the patterns. you see what you call the rhymes of history. and in doing this book, i saw the same thing in american history. we see patterns again and again that even we live through that we don't recognize, that, you know, the republican party and we're now having a debate about whether maga extremism is something akin to fascism. the republican party for 70
years keeps having this dance with extremism. encouraging exploiting extremism. it's happened all the time we see now donald trump and the republican party is not an aberration, it's a continuation, and i was struck because i was reading up on the italian election earlier today, and there was an academic in europe who was talking about the history and he said, what we are seeing in italy is nothing new. you make that point quite, obviously. but even in the last 50 years, the far right has always been there starting at the end of world war ii, and it has bubbled up and bubbled down, bubbled up and bubbled down, and now it's just emerging. it's always been there. the same way we have always had a fringe far-right fanaticism here that the republican party has always tried to exploit to its own benefit whether it was mccarthyism, the birchers, white segregationists in the '60s and '70s, and donald trump just made it burst out. and it's interesting.
in italy, you know, they have a multiple-party system. in italy the fringe elements, the far right, the fascistic elements get their own parties. we don't have multiple parties but we have seen the expansion of the influence of these extremists within the republican party. the republican party acting lying a coalition in europe, taking them in to get power and juice to the extent that we see donald trump in recent days welcoming the qanon movement into his trumpist republican party the way that the majority or the close to majority coalition in italy has taken in and has been led by the fascists. >> david, i was struck by the fact that you document over and over again these moments where what we consider to be the mainstream republican party has to confront how much they want
to be associated with people who they see and movements they see as toxic, anti-democratic, extreme, and in most cases embarrassing. the john birch society, for example, and the conservative media around that time. dwight eisenhower. general eisenhower, as president eisenhower, having to confront mccarthyism and the appeal of joe mccarthy at home in wisconsin where he was an incredibly towering figure and also in terms of the way he tapped into some real dangerous energy on the far right. and i feel like this you busted a bunch of myths in terms of these sort of self-serving histories where we have sort of told ourselves that the republican party, the mainstream republican party has policed those extremes and kept them at bay until now. and in fact i think, tell me if i'm wrong, what i took from your
book is there are multiple instances in which the guys we think are the good guys, mainstream people, chose deliberately to keep cultivating the extremes, the qanon moments of their time alive and agitating for the republican cause. >> the pattern is obvious when you look. there is not a single major republican president or presidential candidate who did not embrace extremism to some degree. it waxes and wanes and some have done it more intensely than others, but it's always in part of the republican playbook. a recent example that of course you will remember, most of the viewers will, john boehner embracing the tea party. the tea party was an extremist movement that was arguing that barack obama was a secret socialist muslim born in africa, had a secret plan to destroy the american economy to impose a totalitarian dictatorship. mccarthyism was irrational and qanon is irrational. he knew that. he invited the tea party on to the steps of the capitol for demonstrations, brought them into the party because they helped him get elected speaker, and then chased him out.
he validated the tea party perspective. and like, you know, mccarthyism, the birchers, or the fascists of europe there is a core there. the element that i see uniting all this is that they look at the other side, their political enemies, and they demonize and dehumanize them. they are subversive. they want to destroy their society. the mccarthyites believe there was a cabal, wanted to turn the u.s. over to the soviets run by people in the u.s. government. i described the tea party conspiracy theory. we know the qanon conspiracy theory. meloni is saying, literally the other day, i saw a speech of hers, financial speculators -- i don't know what that is code for -- and woke activists want to steal our identity,
identities as italians, christians and women and men and turn us into consumer slaves. i mean, that's very qanon-ish in a way. it's all about challenging the other side. not a matter of policy disputes or disagreeing whether it's abortion or tax policy. but calling them subversives who want to destroy the country we love, take away our culture from us. the republicans have played that game again and again and again. i am sorry, you know, we can't both-sides this. there is no equivalent on the democratic side. this is an asymmetrical political history. the book, you know, describes this. and i think it portrays the dark side of the gop for 70 years that the party itself has not
acknowledged and that history and journalists have often not paid enough attention to, as they should. now we see it in, you know, full view because donald trump has made it center stage. >> david korn is washington bureau chief for mother jones. the new book "american psychosis: historical investigation how the republican party went crazy." congratulations on the book. >> thank you,rachel. >> great to see you.   we have got much more ahead, including a stand-up and cheer, yes we can, yes we did it moment that just happened within the past couple of hours. >> this is something we didn't know would work. it worked. we have the footage from it. that's next. stay with us. h us your projects done right

. with angi, you can connect with and see ratings and reviews. and when you book and pay throug you're covered by our happiness check out angi.com today. angi... and done.

if you leave earth and head towards mars, about 7 million miles away in that direction, there is a little tiny asteroid called didymos. this was footage taken in july. it's real footage, sped up 900 times. it is an astroid that orbits the sun. takes two years to go around the sun.
it has its own little moon which circles around didymos like a moth around a flame like our moon circles around us. that moonlet is so small, you can't see it from here on earth. but we know it's there because when it crosses between us and didymos, the light that we can see from didymos dims for a second and then brightens. so we know that there is something there passing between us and didymos. we know that little moonlet is circling around. it takes less than 12 hours for that moonlet to make it around that astroid. less than 12 hours. or at least that's how long it took before tonight because we earthlings maybe just changed that. about ten months ago nasa launched a rocket at that little moonlet. seriously. the hope was that the rocket would smash into the moonlet and knock it off course, nudge it enough to change its orbit. something like this had been
tried before in the movies. it had never before been tried in real space before tonight. a couple of hours ago the smash happened. and we've got footage thanks to an onboard camera on the nasa rocket. this is what the astroid and its moon looked like as the nasa rocket approached and then a few minutes later came the moment of impact. watch. >> three, two, one! oh, my gosh! [ cheers and applause ] >> oh, wow. >> confirmation. woo! >> all right! >> we got it? waiting.
come on. >> and we have impact. in the name of planetary defense. >> woo, fantastic! >> the signal drops. the image drops because the camera was on the rocket. that successfully smashed into that moonlet. you may be wondering, what is the point of demolishing a spacecraft and whacking into a little moonlet asteroid thingy that never did anything to us? the point is for humanity and in the name of planetary defense. the point is the survival of life on earth. this is a test to see whether humanity can deflect an as yet undiscovered astroid that god forbid may be heading for our planet whose impact could obliterate life on our planet the way that astroid wiped out the dinosaurs 66 million years ago when it smacked into us. we are awaiting data from the mission to tell us whether the technique worked, whether the moonlet was nudged and would land somewhere else if it were coming at us.
waiting for the proof of concept, if you will. but they were aiming to hit this thing and they hit it. and who knows if one of the things humankind is ever going to be called upon to do is shoot a spaceship to an astroid that will woolly mammoth us into extinction. if we need it, we should get going on that. this test tonight as to prove the concept we can do it. turns out we can do it. there is a lot of cynicism in the world in our country in particular. a lot of ideological undercutting of the idea that governments can do anything, right? i think we can agree that saving earth from instant death from above would be a good thing to be able to do. so yay for the astroid direct hit tonight. proving we can do something important like that, i mean it's more than its own reward. so let it inspire us in ways large and small. on earth, our own congress,
which nobody has faith in at all, our congress is trying to do something else to stave off a much more immediate threat. they are trying to stave off the threat that a band of criminals can't overthrow the next presidential election the way they tried to overthrow the last one. they are about to have proof of concept of that tomorrow. we are going to hear about that here next. stay with us.



psoriasis really messes with you. try. hope. fail. no one should suffer like that. i started cosentyx®. five years clear. real people with psoriasis look and feel better with cosentyx. don't use if you're allergic to cosentyx. before starting get checked for tuberculosis. an increased risk of infection, some serious and a lowered ability to fight them may occur. tell your doctor about an infection or symptoms or if you had a vaccine or plan to. tell your doctor if your crohn's disease symptoms develop or worsen. serious allergic reaction may occur. best move i've ever made. ask your dermatologist i know there's conflicting information about dupuytren's contracture. i thought i couldn't get treatment yet? well, people may think that their contracture has to be severe to be treated, but it doesn't. if you can't lay your hand flat on the table, talk to a hand specialist. but what if i don't want surgery? well, then you should find a hand specialist certified to offer nonsurgical treatments. what's the next step? visit findahandspecialist.com today to get started.
last week the house passed a bill to reform the electoral count act. all the democrats in the house supported it plus nine republicans. this is a bill that would clearly stop any future effort to do what trump and his supporters tried to pull off january 6th to try to not count the electoral votes or miscount the electoral votes to upend the results of the election. this passed the house. now it golden state to the senate. it has the support of the democrats as far as we know and ten republican senators as co-sponsors. maybe it could pass? it would clarify the vice president's role in counting the votes is ministerial. would make it harder for members of congress to object to certifying the election results, so states can't really send in fake electors like the trump
folks did in seven states last time. these all are reforms that we shouldn't need because nobody should try these schemes, but now that they have tried them once, everybody expects that they will try them again. will republicans join democrats in making sure that this part of our election system is clear enough that those strategies would be impossible to mount again? the bill heads for a markup tomorrow in the senate rules committee. joining us is senator amy klobuchar, chair of the committee. thanks for being here. >> thanks. i have never had a lead-in with a spacecraft hitting a an astroid 6.8 million miles away and the relevance is it's a we can do it moment, as you point out. just like the inflation reduction act, c.h.i.p.s. act, gun safety bill, all these things we got done where people counted us out, i know i have a weird way of thinking about government, things we can do, but i sort of feel like, you
know, prospect of astroid wiping out life on earth used to be same likelihood in my mind as the prospect that somebody wouldn't really count the electoral votes and instead we'd get a president that somebody just forced through. they seemed equally improbable. we are working on the one that should be more difficult. but i feel hope there are so many republican co-sponsors on this effort to fix this particular problem in our elections. >> there was an effort that the senate with a bipartisan group of senators led by senator collins and manchin, head of the rules committee advised them throughout the process. we are excited about our bill that's coming up tomorrow. we are going to make some changes that we have agreed to. and i think we are going to have a really strong vote in the senate committee tomorrow. this is the only committee,rachel, that includes both senator schumer, our leader, as well as senator mcconnell, and ted cruz.
so what can go wrong? [ laughter ] >> actually, this is so important, as you pointed out. voting is about where is the power. i love what you said earlier in theshow. if you disregard people's votes, you disregard their power. so what we're doing here is saying the role of the vice president is ceremonial. the insurrection got within 40 feet of vice president pence as they were yelling "hang mike pence" because donald trump had bloated the role of the vice president in this proceeding. number two, you can't have just two out of 535 people be able to object to and bring town the will of the people state by state. so we increased the number, the percentage of people in the congress that would have to be able to lodge an objection to then have us go back and vote on this. the third thing, as you point out, they shouldn't be able to make up electors after the fact.
the fourth is an appeals process. this is a lot of intricate bipartisan work and the mark-up is tomorrow afternoon. >> are you expecting anybody to throw sands in the gear? with senator mcconnell not objecting, with ten republican co-sponsors in terms of getting this star, are you expecting shenanigans to try to either stop it or pervert it for some other purpose? >> well, you can always anticipate that it could happen. but so far we have not seen signs of that because it has been such a lengthy good-faith effort on both sides. i will say we had a major hearing on it where we had democratic and republican witnesses agreeing that there should be some changes made to this archaic law from the late 1800s. and senator cruz said he liked the commission set up in 1886. i pointed out that i didn't like that year because i couldn't have voted, and i don't think we want to harken back to the time
of rutherford b. hayes and it is time to update this law. so, so far, i think we are going to get a very strong vote on this bill and then we'll take it to the floor. >> well, if we can both nudge an astroid out of the way and get a bipartisan vote to save our democracy in the same week, i feel like our work here is done and it's time for everybody to go on vacation. >> well, not quite yet. we have an election. we want people to, one, vote, very important in the midterms, and, two, volunteer and help out our great candidates because we have got to win this midterm. >> that is fair enough and very grounded. senator klobuchar of minnesota, chair of the rules committee, thank you. we'll be right back. stay with us. then getting on the dexcom g6 is the single most important thing you can do. it eliminates painful fingersticks,
helps lower a1c, and it's covered by medicare. before dexcom g6, i was frustrated. all of that finger-pricking and all of that pain, my a1c was still stuck. my diabetes was out of control. i was tired. (female announcer) dexcom g6 sends your glucose numbers to your phone or receiver without painful fingersticks. the arrow shows the direction your glucose is heading: up, down, or steady, so you can make better decisions about food and activity in the moment. after using dexcom g6, my a1c has never been lower. i lead line dancing three times a week, i exercise, and i'm just living a great life now. it's so easy to use. dexcom g6 has given me confidence and control that everything i need is right there on my phone. (female announcer) dexcom g6 is the #1 recommended cgm system by doctors and patients. call now to get started. (bright music)



the very first time it happened was in new mexico. a judge ousted a county commissioner from his office, threw him out of office, and barred him from ever serving in elected office again. specifically because he participated in the january 6th attack on the capitol. the judge ruled that this commissioner had to be thrown out of office and was disqualified from serving again because of section 3 of the amendment.
that section of the constitution says bars from office any state or federal officeholder who has taken an oath to for the constitution but who has engaged in insurrection or rebellion against the same or given aid or comfort to the enemies thereof. that ruling in new mexico was the first time since 1869 court disqualified an american public official under that clause in the u.s. constitution. it was also the first time that the january 6th attack was formally found by a court to be an insurrection against the united states. although that sounds like kind of a technical determination, a finding like that has lots of consequences. and now this has happened again. not in new mexico, but alaska. a judge in alaska has just ruled that a sitting state representative, a republican member of the state legislature in alaska, is likely ineligible to hold public office, including the office he is in now, because he is a member of the far-right pro-trump paramilitary group the
oath keepers. of course, a big force in the january 6th attack. that group's leader and a bunch of members are currently under indictment for seditious conspiracy against the united states for their actions leading up to and on that day. this alaska state rep, david eastman, is a lifetime member, a life membership in the oath keepers, whatever that means. he also says that he did attend trump's rally on the morning of january 6th. although he denies participating any violence at the capitol that day. the judge hearing this case in alaska ruled that this republican state rep is likely to be found ineligible to hold public office in alaska because of his membership in this group that helped lead the attack on the capitol and that's now on trial for sedition. it's interesting though. unlike in the new mexico case, this judge in alaska didn't base his ruling on the u.s. constitution. he based it on alaska's state constitution. alaska's state constitution contains a disloyalty clause which says no person who
advocates or belongs to a party or association which advocates the overthrow by force or violence of the united states shall not be qualified to hold any public office or trust or profit under this constitution. no person who belongs to an organization that advocates the overthrow by force of the government of the united states shall hold any public office of trust. well, he is in the oath keepers. mr. eastman, representative eastman, is up for re-election this november. the judge in alaska ordered even if he wins re-election, the results of that election cannot be certified by the state of alaska until this issue of whether he is qualified to serve in public office ever again can be settled. they will hold the certification of that election in abeyance
until his eligibility can be determined based on his membership in the oath keepers. so there is two of these cases so far. new mexico and now alaska. the fact that this is happening, the fact that we are starting to see this in multiple jurisdictions citing federal and state constitutions, this is something that could grow and it is something that potentially comes with national consequences, which i am sure you could imagine. watch this space. hat if she owne insurance policy of $100,000 or more she can sell all or part of it to coventry for cash. even a term policy. even a term policy? even a term policy! find out if you're sitting on a goldmine. call coventry direct today at the number on your screen, or visit coventrydirect.com.



before we go, i want to let you know i will be back wednesday night in week 8:00 p.m. eastern, the january 6th investigation is holding its next hearing, possibly the final hearing wednesday at 1:00 p.m. eastern during the day. you can watch it live here as it happens on msnbc. that night, wednesday night at 8:00 eastern, i will be here along with a cast of thousands
to help with our special primetime recap of the hearing. whether or not you are able to watch it live, join us here wednesday night starting at 8:00 p.m. eastern on msnbc. looking forward to seeing you there. that does it for me. alex wagner will be back here tomorrow. "way too early" is up next. >> newly revealed video of trump ally roger stone in july of 2020 and he seems to be laying out a plan to overturn the election. the clip comes from a documentary that is now going to be featured in tomorrow's hearing from the january 6th committee. plus, cuba and florida are preparing for the worst. as hurricane ian gains strength overnight. we'll have the latest on the deadly storm's path. meanwhile, nasa goes armageddon on an asteroid to see if it's possible to save humanity from