on msnbc. from all of our colleagues across the networks in nbc news, goodnight. odnight. thank you at-home for joining us this hour, happy to have you here. not everybody's tv works the same. but for lots of tvs, probably most tvs, now i should probably be more of an expert on this. for most tvs, something like this is what it looks like when you look on the television and you want to decide on something to watch. you get the electronic grid on screen, right? that shows you the channels that you have to choose from, and that's on the left side. and then there's the lists where the various shows and the access that's across the top. you look at the titles for the shows. and this is what it looks like. you click on what you want to
record, and what you want to watch, and that's how you get there. in my house, the remote never works, you have to like open up three cabinet doors, and bench press one of the dogs with the left arm, while you aim the remote in your right arm, and a bank shot off a piece of tinfoil, and get that thing to actually notice that you're clicking on it while you swear. that's how it works in my house. but, the thing that you are pointing at and swearing at when you're trying to click something on tv, kind of looks like that electronic grid. that's what you also used to now, in terms of watching television. it turns out that is not just an american thing, it's like that in lots of places all over the world, anywhere where there is so-called, smart tvs. but check this out. this was today in russia. this happened on at least three different major tv production providers in russia today. the grid looks at first like a normal run down of channels and shows, but if you go, for example to channel one, if you go to any of the other big state sponsored tv channels, it looks on the grid like every single program has the same name.
for all the channels, for all the time slots, all the shows now have the same name! i mean, even if you don't read russian, you can see they're all the same. i don't read russian, but we have it translated. it turns out, according to your tv today, in russia, every singleshow, on every single station in timeslot was titled, on your hand is the blood of thousands of ukrainians, and hundreds of their murdered children, tv and authorities are lying, no to war. that was the title of everyshowon russian television today, according to everybody's tv grid, when they turned on their tvs. somebody hacked at least three of the biggest cable tv providers in russia today, so that is what it looked like all over russia, when people went to flip on the tube, to see what was on, to see what the options were. also today, fairly major russian news outlet, one called
lenta, l-e-n-t-a, this is their website. and today, the same day somebody hacked all the tv's and website, today somebody also re-wrote what appears to be dozens of headlines, and dozens of articles on the news website. now, as you know, as we've been reporting here for the last couple of months, no independent media is allowed to operate anymore in russia. putin has made it literally a crime, a crime punishable by 15 years in prison to report on his war in ukraine, or even to call it a war. but look at what the lenta website looked like earlier today in russia. now, this is with english translation, so you could see what these headlines look like. but oh boy, wow! vladimir putin lied about russia's plans in ukraine. putin unleashed one of the bloodiest wars in the 21st century. these are all the headlines on the news website today. record spending on the army did not help russia defeat ukraine. the ministry of defence allied to the relatives of those killed on the cruiser, moskva, that big russian naval ship
that was sunk by ukrainian missile. also this one, russia completely destroyed the city of mariupol. russia leaves the corpses of its soldiers in ukraine. vladimir putin is afraid to reveal the truth about his family. putin turned to the state into the main robber, meaning like the main thief, of russians. vladimir putin has turned into a pathetic dictator and paranoid. russia threatens to destroy the whole world. zelenskyy turned out to be cooler than putin. but what makes it easier to cover up failures and the economy. putin must go. he unleashed a senseless war, and is leading russia into the abyss. again, this was all today, all separate headlines today. one of the biggest pro kremlin state controlled new sites in russia. and it wasn't just the headlines that they've changed. each one of those that i just described to you, each one of those headlines goes to a full article, that has also been
written. i mean, in a country where they do not allow journalism anymore, they do not allow criticism of the government, and especially of the war, these sentences, posted today on a russian new site, these were like a defcon one level threat to the state. look at this. quote, russian president vladimir putin bears full responsibility for the senseless and bloody war against ukraine. guided by farfetched protects about threats to russia, the head of state plunged to neighboring peoples into a war in which there will be no winners, only losers. the president's decision will cost the country isolation, poverty and it roll back to the very 90s that putin loves to scare russians with. and more than 20 years of his reign, he has turned into a dictator, who began to believe in conspiracy theories and who lost touch with reality. right now, putin is depriving millions of russians of their future, and taking the lives of innocent ukrainians. vladimir putin must immediately stop the war and resign. it is one thing to read that,
you know western news source. or to read that in any news source in the world, anywhere other than in russia. but to read that in russia? again, today, that was a russian major new site today, altered to include that article and dozens of others like it. and if you start going through them, you notice that there were a few things that were inconsistent in each of the new articles that were posted. for example, near the top of each are of the articles, it was supposed to the russian news site, today there was disclaimer that this has been posted without the permission of the news organization, saying that it was definitely gonna be taken down. so if you want to read this, take a screenshot of it immediately, because this won't last. then indeed, that disclaimer was true, all those articles and headlines were almost immediately taken down off that russia new site to day. but they were up there for long
enough that the great and good people at the internet archive, the way back machine, they captured and saved all of it. they've got screenshots. they've got the historical record of what those new sites looked like, when the truthful anti-putin stuff was supposed to just for moments. they've got the archive of it, so there can be erased now. even though the russian government took it down. and in this case, what's fascinating is that we know who did it. two journalists, two young journalists who used to work for lenta, this news organization, they say that they did it. they have reportedly fled russia. their outside russia, personally. they apparently still had logins, to access the news sites, so that is how they did it. now, they obviously prepared all of this material, locked in, uploaded everything, locked out, and got out. but they posted today, identifying themselves by name. as the people who did, it was igor and alexandra.
miroshnikova they gave their names. they stood up and said were the ones who did this, and they said, quote, we are looking for work and lawyers and probably political asylum. and then, they signed up with this, do not be afraid! do not be silent! resist! you are not alone. we are many! the future is ours! f war, peace to ukraine! and we do not know where those two brave russian journalists are tonight, the ones who did that. but again, it has been reported there outside russia, but we do not know where they are. we also don't know who hacked all the tvs in russia today either. but man, this is a living manifest hope that bravery is contagious. that dictatorships are brutal, and that they have to criminalize journalism and criticism of all kinds, because they know it's powerful, because they know they can't survive the truth.
the reason this all happened today, of all days, is because today is the biggest non religious holiday in russia. it's the anniversary of the surrender of nazi germany in world war ii, what we call the idai, victory in europe day, we celebrated on may 8th. they call it a victory day, the celebrated on may 9th and they make a very good deal out of it and they do. on the occasion of victory day today they held a big, big military parade in moscow. a north korea style military parade. putin gave a speech. which is usually something that went outside of russia much cares about, but in this case, there was rampant speculation that putin would use victory day today, that he would use his speech on this huge day, this huge occasion with the military parade and all the rest of it. there was widespread expectation that he would use the speech to declare something about the war that he has started in ukraine. speculation that he might declare victory himself, in this war. and an ounce tauranga ended to leave in ukraine, or maybe do the opposite. maybe formally declare war, no
longer call this a special military operation, maybe he would call it a war, declare war, and announced that russia have not yet begun the fight. he was gonna call up a mass mobilization of even more russian troops to go into ukraine, and to permanently occupy it. widespread international, and well informed speculation, that putin was gonna announce something today about this insane war that he has stuck in. some way to get out or to get way further in. that is with everybody thought he was gonna do today, and then he did not do it. he just gave us standard putin talking points speech, including all the weird stuff about how ukraine was going to attack russia, really? and so, this was a defensive invasion. and the wars going great, everybody else is a nazi. it's just a standard, weird conspiratorial blather. it means nothing at all, that even you weird insane justifications for what he's done. why?
why didnt the dog bark today? i mean, hackers who hit the tv stations in russia, and brave dissident journalists, and regular russian people, they know that this would have been the day for putin. this day is all the symbolism he wants for this war. i mean, he spent so much time trying to make this war seem like some variation on world war ii. when he finally gets to the day that commemorates russia in world war ii, he wusses out. he decides not to say anything at all. he's like 75 days into what he thought would be a weeklong war, and he's not winning. and he's not gonna change anything. today, the pulitzer prize board gave a special citation to the quote, journalists of ukraine for their courage endurance and commitment to truthful reporting during vladimir putin's ruthless invasion of their country and this propaganda war in russia,
despite bombardment, abductions, occupation and even deaths in the ranks, they have persisted in their effort to provide an accurate picture of artillery, doing honor to ukraine, and journalists around the world. again, it was the pulitzer special citation today for the courage of ukrainian journalists. also today, the u.s. government announced another round of sanctions against russia, including sanctions today specifically against channel one of the bombastic kremlin propaganda tv channel, that had the name of every one of its programs, today changed by hackers into statements against the war. today, the president of the united states once again pressed congress to quickly approve billions more dollars in aid and weapons to ukraine, to help the ukrainians fight russia off. this weekend, as i'm sure you saw, first lady jill biden went to ukraine, a surprise trip. she brought flowers and a hug to the first lady of ukraine, who has been in hiding since the start of the war, since the ukrainian government announced at the start of the war that they believed part of the
russia, russian invasion plan was not only to immediately seize ukraine's capital, but to kill president zelenskyy, and his wife, and their kids as well. mrs. zelenskyy has not been seen in public since that announcement, since the very start of the war, not until this weekend, not until this moment you're seeing here. and she walked out to joe biden, and they embraced. recent reporting from nbc news, and from the new york times, revealed that the united states has provided intelligence to the ukrainians, that they have used to target and kill an astonishingly large number of russian generals on the front lines of the war. and also, to target and sink the flagship navy cruiser of russia's fleet in the black sea which was sunk in the black sea by ukrainian missiles. today, further news from washington, but president biden, president biden wants no
further leaks about matters like those. reporting today that he has some and both cia director and the director of national intelligence to make sure that sensitive information like that doesn't see the light of day again. but how sensitive is it. i mean, sensitive in terms of sources, and nothing is how we know where the generals are, and how we know where their ships are? sure, but sensitive in terms of what it might mean for russia, to know that we get that information to ukraine, give them what ukraine has done, but that information was they've got it. once they called in 1941 when i came up with a way for the u. s. to go whole hog an army in the british and arming our allies to fight against nazis. fdr went to the white house, correspondents didn't in march
1994. he said these plain people, civilians as well as soldiers and airmen, women and girls as well as men and boys are fighting in the front line of civilization at this moment. they're holding that line fortitude. the british people need ships, they need planes from america. many tanks, guns, ammunition and supplies of all times. america, they will get tanks, guns, ammunition supplies of all-time. you said in the spring of 1941. that was fdr fighting against the nazis. explain to the press what it would mean. it's fighting with everything that we have to push germany back. that was land lease.
the only thing he's ever been. this year, they've literally just updated the language from 1941. so, now instead of being for the british people it is for the ukrainian people. president biden signed it today and with everything that is dissimilar and wrong between the two parties it passed the united states senate passed almost unanimously with the trump republican saying no. i mean, if it is a sensitive thing for the united states to be helping ukraine against russia too much of a worry about what putin might do if we help ukraine too much, i honestly we are helping ukraine a lot and more and more all the time. more and more in putin's face all the time. we are using the language in historical allegory that putin
wants for himself. it isn't working for him. and today, given the chance. the best chance that he will ever have to triple down today and say all bets are off. there is a real war, russia's all. in today, he did nothing of the sort he did nothing. why is that? what does that tell us about how risky our own behavior is right now? what does that tell us about a reasonable expectation should be on how russia will respond to the actions in ukraine? what else can be done by us and everyone else nerlens to help them? to help ukraine win this and and this. joining us now is david rudd mick, editor of the new yorker and the moscow correspondent for the washington post. he won a pulitzer prize based
on his time there which is called, listened to. the last day of the soviet empire. it's a pleasure to have you here. i'm asking those questions are submissions or getting while, their expectations about putin 's behavior. not just towards ukraine but toward us. do you think that's fair? >> i think it's very fair, let's put it this way i woke up deliberately not 4:30 in the morning. something to read in realtime or watch putin speech may 9th is always a big deal it's a national unifying narrative. i think it's very fair. , the victory in what is called the patriotic court. and as important as it is, here
it is, in many ways, much more important in soviet history. and even in the post soviet space. he said nothing. you have it exactly right. i read, immediately in russian and then in english -- you know, my russian is lacking. i read it on a kremlin website. and i kept waiting for the payoff. it never came. it never came. and what you found there was just the resuscitation, the repetition of what i would call a salvation narrative. you can't possibly say in real terms why invaded in ukraine. he's a invaded ukraine because he wanted a battle with the west after long years of resentment. he invaded ukraine because it was growing fitfully, more and more democratic, more morrow a from russia. and more and more away from the conception of a modern imperial russia.
so, he needs a vocabulary for that to relate to the russian people. and it's not there. so, that is where the invasion of nazis come. from yes, there were people -- there are some people on the far-right nationalists in ukraine. but to call this a national trend or to not fail to see, or to fail to see that nationalism comes from somewhere is to know nothing about ukrainian history. >> or the idea that putin has a problem with far-right nationalism. >> nationalists, all over the place in russia, including in this own house. and he is losing it. he's losing. it, and you know, i thought i was full of news here having read russian websites. and all of those amazing things that went of. and you obviously, you had. it and it's a terrific thing. it made me think of a different time. in 1968, the soviet union
invaded czechoslovakia. what happened? nothing happened. in soviet terms. seven or eight very brave people, including somebody pushing a baby carriage came to red square. and took out banners and said, czechoslovakia, we are with you. we are against this invasion. within the minute, predictably, kgb officers obviously guarding red square and the kremlin were on these people and beat the hell out of. them all these people were arrested and most went off to prison. some guy wrote about -- that was a one minute long almost invisible protest. and i had a mentor of percussion with the movement. it was inspired why. it was inspired and became more and more overtly leader of the
dissonant movement. it is hard to know what instances like this, like this demonstration have incredible bravery. or that women who, some weeks, ago ran behind the tv presenter and also -- >> during the nightly news. >> yes, incredible. >> and i think that the presumption is everyone's for this war because everybody listens to propaganda television. and that is that. i think that as time goes by, because people are not stupid, because mothers are receiving phone calls from their sons at the front. because casualties are building up and the economic repercussions are making themselves numb that the ability to keep all this information out of the public consciousness will recede. and his problems will not only be just military. his problems will not only be
just confrontations with the west. but, i think it is entirely possible that, as his fury grows so too will his problems. >> which should change the expectations in terms of what he believes he can ask the russian people for. or, he gets all the russian people they are built to deliver. >> what we were waiting for this morning was a big globalization. so people that were reserved, kids from all over the country, young men from all over the country's -- first of all, that would have the most economic repercussions. it would heighten alarm among the population about what's at stake in ukraine. why is this taking so long? what is this special military operation? it seems a lot more serious than that. and the nonsense begins to corrode. you know, one of the information things that happened this week is an awful guy on russian television.
and he run some spectacular propaganda, televisionshow. he was sent to mary opal to kind of lead the propaganda. imagine tucker carlson being sent to, i don't know, charlottesville to whip up the fever in the kind of civil war. that is the move. that's the move. and it doesn't really work. it doesn't really work. >> he was supposed to inspire the people of mariupol to get insighted about russia invading them? >> well, also to be filmed to the folks back home. >> they were liberators. >> this understanding about how and what's the room putin feels he can maneuver, even if he is, as you say, losing. it i think it's going to change the american calibration in terms of how much we can maneuver and how he may respond. i feel like we are only starting to figure it out. david remnick is the editor of the new yorker, which is the best magazine in the english language. he is also the author of the
pulitzer prize-winning, lenin's, to the last day of the soviet empire. thank you for giving up a four in the morning, reading the speech in russian to fact check us. good to see. thank you. we'll be right back, stay with us. y with us to give you an edge. 24/7 support when you need it the most. plus, zero-dollar commissions for online u.s. listed stocks. [ding] get e*trade from morgan stanley and start trading today. never settle with power e*trade. it has powerful, easy-to-use tools to help you find opportunities, 24/7 support when you need answers, plus some of the lowest options in futures contract prices around. [ding] get e*trade from morgan stanley and start trading today. ♪ ♪ [ding] get e*trade from morgan stanley aleve x. its revolutionary rollerball design delivers fast, powerful, long-lasting pain relief. aleve it, and see what's possible. ♪♪
♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪ it's the most wonderful time of the year. ♪ claritin provides non-drowsy symptom relief from over 200 indoor and outdoor allergens, day after day. feel the clarity and make today the most wonderful time of the year. live claritin clear. trelegy for copd. ♪ birds flyin' high ♪ ♪ you know how i feel ♪ (coughing) ♪ breeze driftin' on by ♪ ♪ you know how i feel ♪ copd may have gotten you here, but you decide what's next. start a new day with trelegy. ♪ ...feelin' good ♪
no once-daily copd medicine has the power to treat copd in as many ways as trelegy. with three medicines in one inhaler, trelegy helps people breathe easier and improves lung function. it also helps prevent future flare-ups. trelegy won't replace a rescue inhaler for sudden breathing problems. tell your doctor if you have a heart condition or high blood pressure before taking it. do not take trelegy more than prescribed. trelegy may increase your risk of thrush, pneumonia, and osteoporosis. call your doctor if worsened breathing, chest pain, mouth or tongue swelling, problems urinating, vision changes, or eye pain occur. take a stand and start a new day with trelegy. ask your doctor about once-daily trelegy. and save at trelegy.com. i, this is jeff for them very

and i'm out in a drive in my 1963 ford pickup truck. and this is my wife celeste, we do this every now and then. i wanted to send a video because we do have something hard to tell you. we do this every now and then, whenever i have to report that i have been indicted. that is nebraska publican last october the thing he had to tell us as a pilot his wife and his dog near the nice pickup truck was in fact that he had been indicted on felony charges and federal court he was charged with lying to the fbi because of illegal foreign contributions to his campaign. despite those charges, jeff foreign barry vowed to press on, stay in office. it would not surprise you to
learn that donald trump immediately issued a statement of support as he does for basically all republican politicians indicted for corruption. but unfortunately for the congressman trump was no longer president by the time he issued a statement of support, he couldn't pardon him like he did all the other and that republicans of the trump era. three months after the initial administer foreign barry powell 's wife and his dogs to pick up again and announced that never mind the federal charges against, him he would be running for reelection. , he said he'd be running for reelection in that his trial got underway in march. and when his trial got underway, he became the first sitting member of congress to stand ahead of trial on over two decades. the jury convicted him on three felony accounts. the only deliberated for two hours. then and only then did
republican leadership finally give him a shove out the door. turns out you can't simultaneously be in prison and in congress. that is a dotted line right now. it's a fine line but a dotted line. because of jeff fortenberry recent returns. voters in nebraska, first congressional district, are going to the pole tomorrow. there will be a primary election to nominate a new republican to run for the seat vacated by the recently convicted congressman. and that is just not good for the republican party. i mean, it's never good for party fighting to have to retain a seat in congress once they have lost it under those circumstances, right? when your party's previous guy can't run because he has to go to steel bar hotel. that's not good for your party. but, on the same, ballad on the same state, on the same election tomorrow, the trump endorsed republican candidate for nebraska governor is a guy who has been accused of groping
by eight different women. including a republican state senator. trump, never the less felt so strongly about supporting this guy that he held a rally for him last weekend in nebraska. so the guy was innocent and said the groping allegations from the eight different women, despicable. he called the allegation, despicable. not the alleged behavior. so, tomorrow's not a good day for the republican party in nebraska. no matter how they do in the polls. but it's not just nebraska, there is more, there's much more. to a point that it's getting with. and that story is next. stay with us. with us do your eyes bother you? because after all these emails my eyes feel like a combo of stressed, dry and sandpaper. luckily, there's biotrue hydration boost eye drops for instant moisture. biotrue uses naturally inspired ingredients.
and no preservatives. try biotrue my auntie called me. she said uncle's had and a heart attack.s. i needed him to be here. your heart isn't just yours. protect it with bayer aspirin. be sure to talk to your doctor before you begin an aspirin regimen. power e*trade gives you an award-winning mobile app with powerful, easy-to-use tools, and interactive charts to give you an edge. 24/7 support when you need it the most. plus, zero-dollar commissions for online u.s. listed stocks. [ding] get e*trade from morgan stanley and start trading today. never settle with power e*trade. it has powerful, easy-to-use tools to help you find opportunities, 24/7 support when you need answers, plus some of the lowest options in futures contract prices around. [ding] get e*trade from morgan stanley and start trading today.
manhood looks different from guy to guy. but when yours bends in a different direction, you might feel bothered by it. so talk to a urologist. because a bend in your erection might be peyronie's disease or pd. it's a condition that involves a buildup of scar tissue. but, it's treatable. xiaflex is the only fda- approved nonsurgical treatment for appropriate adult men with peyronie's disease. along with daily penile stretching and straightening exercises, xiaflex has been proven to help gradually reduce the bend. don't receive if the treatment area involves your urethra, or if you're allergic to any collagenase or any of the ingredients. may cause serious side effects, including: penile fracture or other serious injury during an erection, and severe allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis. seek help if you have any of these symptoms. do not have any sexual activity during and for at least 4 weeks after each treatment cycle. sudden back pain reactions after treatment may occur. tell your doctor if you have a bleeding condition or take blood thinners as risk of bleeding or bruising at the treatment site is increased. talk to a urologist about what your manhood could look like.
find a xiaflex-trained urologist at bentcarrot.com for copd, ask your doctor about breztri. breztri gives you better breathing, symptom improvement, and helps prevent flare-ups. breztri won't replace a rescue inhaler for sudden breathing problems. it is not for asthma. tell your doctor if you have a heart condition... ...or high blood pressure before taking it. don't take breztri more than prescribed. breztri may increase your risk of thrush, pneumonia, and osteoporosis. call your doctor if worsened breathing, chest pain, mouth or tongue swelling,... ...problems urinating, vision changes, or eye pain occur. if you have copd, ask your doctor about breztri. hey businesses! ...problems urinating, vision changeyou all deserveoccur. something epic! so we're giving every business, our best deals on every iphone - including the iphone 13 pro with 5g. that's the one with the amazing camera? yep! every business deserves it... like one's that re-opened! hi, we have an appointment. and every new business that just opened! like aromatherapy rugs! i'll take one in blue please! it's not complicated. at&t is giving new and existing business customers our best deals on every iphone. ♪ ♪
out-of-state corporations wrote an online sports betting plan they call "solutions for the homeless". really? the corporations take 90 percent of the profits. and using loopholes they wrote, they'd take even more. the corporations' own promotional costs, like free bets, taken from the homeless funds. and they'd get a refund on their $100 million license fee, taken from homeless funds, too. these guys didn't write a plan for the homeless. they wrote it for themselves. when you need help it's great to be in sync with customer service. a team of reps who can anticipate the next step genesys technology is changing the way customer service teams anticipate what customers need. because happy customers are music to our ears. genesys, we're behind every customer smile. >> if you can spot the same
here and we are going to start it includes the states disgraced former governor, we are forced to resign a dozen are consensual sexual encounter and then blackmailed her about it with the photos. governorship of missouri. he seems decided that the people of missouri should be too, he has jumped into the u. s. senate race the internal poll that he shared with reporters today reportedly
shows him leading the republican field for the senate. if you believe there, pull that guy with that record is the leading candidate to be the republican nominee for the united states senate from history. that is missouri. how about georgia? the leading republican candidate for the u.s. senate in georgia, is this guy. his name is herschel walker. mr. walker's ex-wife accused him of physically abusive and extremely threatening behavior during their marriage, including holding a pistol to her head, and threatening to, quote, blow her brains out. according to documents obtained by the ap, several years after their divorce, herschel walker's ex-wife secured a protective order against him, after he repeatedly called her sister and her father. father threatening again that he was going to kill her.
so, that is the republican parties leading candidate for senate in the great state of georgia how about in the great state of pennsylvania? not only is their leading. republican candidate for governor guy who is literally part of the mob that attacked the u.s. capitol and january 6th. the guy he endorsed lieutenant governors in order by judge to stay away from his own home after his wife obtained a protective order over claims of physical and mental abuse, she accuses him of stalking her at work, screaming at her, and grabbing her by the shirt and threatening to kill the family dog. >> okay, pennsylvania republicans. how about ohio? republican voters in ohio's ninth congressional district have been getting a lot of attention over the last couple of days, because they just handed the republican nomination for one congressional seat, to another guy there is at the january 6th riot. but in the seventh congressional district, a former donald trump staffer won that republican primary a few days ago as well, even after he was publicly accused of assault by his ex girlfriend.
in his case, the ex girlfriend making the allegation of physical assault because the trump white house press secretary. a senior member of the trump white house, said he physically abused her. doesn't seem to matter, trump endorsed him, he won his primary with 70% of the vote. and i know this almost sounds like, i'm being hyperbolic, or i'm rounding up to the next worst thing, when you lineup all these guys. but honestly, that's just all the facts. we haven't even gotten to this headline out of indiana, this weekend. not exaggerating, this is a real headline, man accused of killing his wife winds republican primary from jail. dude is in jail, on charges of murdering his wife, and he won his republican primary with for a municipal board in indiana. he'll be on the ballot in november unless he is convicted by then, but being in jail on
those charges wasn't a problem. if the republican party was a private company, their age our company would be blowing through all their overtime just this week. things like this happen from time to time, you get people accused of doing horrible things who nevertheless and up rising in politics, right? but this is an unusually dense concentration of them, for the cycle for the republican party. how many of these do we need before we call it this year's pattern. it is absolutely stunning that the republican party is fielding all of these men, accused of all of these horrible thing involving, women that this is happening in such an incredible concentration, while the republican party this year, set to be running in the context of banning abortion. in the wake of the leaked drafts -- the senate republican leader, mitch mcconnell, said this weekend that is possible republicans will pursue a federal nationwide abortion ban, if the republicans are lucky
enough to take over congress. in louisiana, we -- would declare anybody who has an abortion to have committed murder. if you had an abortion in louisiana you will be considered to have committed murder. louisiana is a state in which murder is punishable by the death penalty. so, those sort of rushing right to the end of the story without, when he louisiana republicans. mississippi's republican governor, under questioning by cnn anchor jake tapper this, weekend he would not rule out that mississippi republicans, after they get abortion banned, they might move on to banning contraception. might happen, don't talk about debt. in arizona, a republican u.s. senate candidate, backed up by billionaire trump powell peter teal, says that if he's elected, senator you will only vote to confirm judges who will not just vote to overturn roe, a supreme court ruling that guarantees right to abortion, he says he will only vote for judicial nominees who pledged to overturn the ruling that
guarantees acts as to contraception. that's a litmus test, for him. marshall blackburn, sitting u.s. senator for tennessee, also recently doubt tonight is that supreme court ruling, protecting access to contraception. as did all of the republican ghana dates for attorney general in michigan this year. they all apparently think that the governor should be able to ban contraception, and we need to get rid of the supreme court precedent that prevents the government for media able to do that. >> it's not like there's been a weird little outbreak of radicalism in one corner of the country, right? this is a very stark thing -- with the context and the backdrop being so stark and so practical, here's a very pragmatic question. so your moderate democrat, running in a moderate purple state, and that's the kind of radicalism that you're running against on the right. you would expect just in terms of political science and math you to have an advantage over
that kind of extremism, and radicalism coming from the republican party. but it's always in the details, right? how do you actually handle that kind of a confrontation, with that kind of republican party on a practical level. it seems like it should hurt them, but if it's going to hurt them it's gonna be the democrats that have to use it against the republicans in their campaigns. there's a practical question here as to how democrats do that. campaign ads do not write themselves, they do not run themselves, there are choices that need to be made about how and where and when to do this. one very moderate, very bipartisan minded democratic senator in a very tough reelection fight, has just for the first shot of this new bottle, and we'll see how she is approaching. it she joins us live here next, stay with us. h us do your eyes bother you?
because after all these emails my eyes feel like a combo of stressed, dry and sandpaper. luckily, there's biotrue hydration boost eye drops for instant moisture. biotrue uses naturally inspired ingredients. and no preservatives. try biotrue better hearing leads to a better life. and no preservatives. and that better life... ...starts at miracle-ear. it all begins with the most innovative technology... ...like the new miracle-earmini™. available exclusively at miracle-ear. so small, no one will see it. but you'll notice the difference. and now, miracle-ear is offering a 30-day risk-free trial. you can experience better hearing with no obligation. call 1-800-miracle right now and experience a better life. (fisher investments) it's easy to think that all money managers are pretty much the same, but at fisher investments we're clearly different. (other money manager) different how? you sell high commission investment products, right? (fisher investments) nope. fisher avoids them. (other money manager) well, you must earn commissions on trades. (fisher investments) never at fisher.
(other money manager) ok, then you probably sneak in some hidden and layered fees. (fisher investments) no. we structure our fees so we do better when clients do better. that might be why most of our clients come from other money managers. at fisher investments, we're clearly different. what can i du with less asthma? with dupixent, i can du more... crazy commutes... crowd control- have a nice day alex (thanks ms. ellen) ...taking the stairs. that's how you du more with dupixent, which helps prevent asthma attacks. dupixent is not for sudden breathing problems. it's an add-on-treatment for specific types of moderate-to-severe asthma that can improve lung function for better breathing in as little as two weeks. and can reduce, or even eliminate, oral steroids. and here's something important. dupixent can cause allergic reactions that can be severe. get help right away if you have rash, chest pain, worsening shortness of breath, tingling or numbness in your limbs. tell your doctor about new or worsening
joint aches and pain, or a parasitic infection. don't change or stop asthma medicines, including steroids, without talking to your doctor. are you ready to du more with less asthma? just ask your asthma specialist about dupixent. >> tech: when you have auto glass damage, trust safelite. this dad and daughter were driving when they got a crack in their windshield. [smash] >> dad: it's okay. pull over. >> tech: he wouldn't take his car just anywhere... ♪ pop rock music ♪ >> tech: ...so he brought it to safelite. we replaced the windshield and recalibrated their car's advanced safety system, so features like automatic emergency braking will work properly. >> tech: alright, all finished. >> dad: wow, that's great. thanks. >> tech: stay safe with safelite. schedule now. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ the more information i found, got me more curious. researching my family on ancestry has given me a purpose. we discovered that our family has been in new mexico for hundreds of years. it showed how much my family was really rooted in campbell county.
it was really finding gold. the best part is feeling like i really have roots. don't be afraid to open the door, there's so much information on the other side. ♪ “you can get it if you really want” by jimmy cliff ♪ ♪ ♪ [suitcase closing] [gusts of wind] [ding] ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ >> three men, one agenda.
fulfilling mitch mcconnell's decade-long crusade to criminalize abortion. >> this media identified chuck morris as, quote, a key architect of new hampshire's abortion ban. he said he'd bring you hunters abortion ban to washington. don said that the new hampshire abortion ban is, quote, better than nothing. but claims it doesn't go far north. and kevin smith, he says, quote, we are so close to ending abortion once and for. all >> that is their agenda. they all supported new hampshire support abortion ban. and now, with roe v. wade on the verge of being overturned,
these three men and their one agenda. a woman's fundamental rights, our freedoms hang in the balance. >> it's a brand-new political ad, targeting the three republican men who are competing to be the republican party's nominee for the united states senate in new hampshire this year. all three are competing to run against the senator whose campaign just started running that ad. she is senator maggie hassan. the fight over abortion will be nationwide, this year, given where the supreme court is about what to do on roe v. wade. but that fight will not just be a fight between conservatives on the one side, and fire breathing progressives on the other. senator maggie hassan is a moderate. she is a workhorse senator, who is known for being fiercely bipartisan. she's a legitimate centrist in a world where that is not supposed to be possible anymore. last week, georgetown university school of public policy literally ranked her the most bipartisan senator in the united states senate. but this fight is joined,
including by senators like maggie hassan. senator hassan joins us now live. senator, pleasure to have you with us this night. thank you for making time. >> thanks for having me on,rachel. >> i think for a long time we have imagined the fight over a post-roe america, being one that would be fought between the left and the right, clearly defied. and that this would be something where it would be sort of predictable to find the combatants here. it feels like now that it's upon us, those assumptions have been proven wrong. and this is a fight that will be in every state in the country, in every race. and it seems largely just to be between the two parties. that's how i see it. but i want to ask, if you see that same way? >> well you know, in new hampshire, we have a strong bipartisan tradition of supporting women's right to make our own fundamental health care decisions, her right, essentially to freedom. and so, it is very, very concerning that extremists in our state capital have inserted an abortion ban into our state budget last year. and now, one of them is one of
my opponents in the senate race. the republicans are eager to come to washington, and help mitch mcconnell fulfill what his clearly been his goal for decades, which is to not only overturn roe v. wade, but now it seems, passed an abortion ban, a national abortion ban. this is an issue where the vast majority of americans for a cross party lines support roe v. wade, and support codifying it. so this is really about which party will listen to voters and uphold their values, and protect fundamental freedoms for every american, regardless of political party. >> we look at some of the polling today in new hampshire on this issue, and in new hampshire, just as in the country, that public opinion does line up the way that you just described. there are strong majorities in
new hampshire, just this there are nationwide, for leaving in place that protections of roe. it really doesn't map on to our national, political party divisions. there aren't pro-life republicans anymore. there aren't republicans who are arguing for moderation or for even slowing down, in terms of what the supreme court is about to do. should we take it from this new ad, just released by your campaign, that you think will this be a central issue near election effort this fall? >> you know, the right of people to make their own personal decisions, their right to bodily autonomy is foundational to everything else. and as we talk about the ways we come together to address the challenges we need to address, including peoples prices, helping people afford things like prescription drugs, or child care, they need to know that they have representation in washington, that is actually listening to them. and what we see in my state, and i think we're seeing around the country on this issue, is candidates for senate who are wildly out of step with where
their constituents are, that is certainly the case of the opponents that i have on the republican side, when it comes to this issue of a woman's fundamental right to make her own choices, to chart her own path, including her own economic path. so, i think what you are going to see is all around the country. there is real concern about how out of touch the republicans are on this fundamental and key issue, which raises the issues for voters, if they won't listen to you on this, are they gonna listen to on anything? on the need to lower the cost of prescription drugs and stand up to big pharma? or lower the price of gas by standing up to big oil? this is about a fundamental right of protecting our freedom and recognizing that if the republican party is willing to go after a woman's fundamental freedom, if they are willing to rollback the rights of half of
the population, will they be willing to stand up for anyone's freedom? and what that does to our democracy is of critical concern to my constituents, and i think americans everywhere. >> new hampshire democratic u. s. senator maggie hassan, who has a difficult reelection fight ahead of her this year. senator hassan, it's always better to have a little bit of time with you. thanks for joining us tonight. >> thank you so much for having me. be safe. >> i should mention that i misspoke there when i was trying to make the case that there aren't any pro-choice republicans in this fight right now. i said there aren't any pro life republicans, which is exactly backwards, which i shouldn't do, because i'm supposed to be a pro. but i failed all the time. sorry, we'll be right back. rry, we'll be right back the sleep number 360 smart bed is on sale now.
it senses your movements and automatically adjusts so you both stay comfortable all night. it's also temperature balancing so you stay cool. save $500 on the sleep number 360 c4 smart bed, queen now only $1,299. plus no interest until january 2025 ends monday. hi. we're zerowater. and we believe everyone deserves the purest tasting water. that's why we strive for zero. you see, to some it means nothing. but to us, it means everything. here, take a look. this meter showing triple zeros means our five-stage filter did its job, and that virtually all dissolved solids or tds have been removed. and all that's left is the purest tasting water. let's compare. a two-stage brita filter stops here. but our five-stage filter doesn't quit. zerowater. we strive for zero. manhood looks different from guy to guy. but when yours bends in a different direction,
you might feel bothered by it. so talk to a urologist. because a bend in your erection might be peyronie's disease or pd. it's a condition that involves a buildup of scar tissue. but, it's treatable. xiaflex is the only fda- approved nonsurgical treatment for appropriate adult men with peyronie's disease. along with daily penile stretching and straightening exercises, xiaflex has been proven to help gradually reduce the bend. don't receive if the treatment area involves your urethra, or if you're allergic to any collagenase or any of the ingredients. may cause serious side effects, including: penile fracture or other serious injury during an erection, and severe allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis. seek help if you have any of these symptoms. do not have any sexual activity during and for at least 4 weeks after each treatment cycle. sudden back pain reactions after treatment may occur. tell your doctor if you have a bleeding condition or take blood thinners as risk of bleeding or bruising at the treatment site is increased. talk to a urologist about what your manhood could look like. find a xiaflex-trained urologist at bentcarrot.com
xfinity mobile runs on america's most reliable talk to a urologist about what your manhood could look like. 5g network, but for up to half the price of verizon so you have more money for more stuff. this phone? fewer groceries. this phone? more groceries! this phone? fewer concert tickets. this phone? more concert tickets.
and not just for my shows. switch to xfinity mobile for half the price of verizon. new and existing customers get amazing value with our everyday pricing. switch today. this? this is supersonic wifi from xfinity. it's fast. like, ready-for- major-gig-speeds fast. like riding-a-cheetah fast. isn't that right, girl? whoa! it can connect hundreds of devices at once. [ in unison ] that's powerful. couldn't have said it better myself. and with three times the bandwidth, the gaming never has to end. slaying is our business. and business is good. unbeatable internet from xfinity. >> if you record thisshowon made to do anything so you can do anything. your dvr. if you have your tv or your dvr set up to record therachelmaddowshow, every night at 9 pm eastern, first of all, thank you.
you've kept me employed all these years. but also i need you to do another thing. keep the diverse setting that you've got, where you record therachelmaddowshow. but you also need to add msnbc prime to your dvr recordings. and the reason you need both of those is that i'm mostly gonna be here on mondays, even though our whole team is working to produce theshowevery night at 9 pm eastern. but in addition to every monday that i'm here, i will also be here for big news events, including some that might arise on short notice. so we need to set your dvr to recorded every night at 9 pm eastern. which means setting it to record therachelmaddowshowand also msnbc prime. please. thank you. that's gonna do it for me for tonight. ali velshi will be here tomorrow with msnbc prime. now, time for the last word with lawrence o'donnell. good evening, lawrence. >> good evening,rachel. let me see,rachelmaddowand msnbc prime, by the way, no one has told me -- am i supposed to ask the viewers to dvr the last word with lawrence o'donnell?