advisory committee usually make sure thereafter to make a recommendation. >> yes. it could be the summer. i think that would be, again if the data is there -- and if there is reason for this to be safe and effective, there could be peace of mind there for a lot of folks. dr. julie morita, thank you. >> thanks for having me. >> that is all in, therachelmaddowshowstarts right. now thank you. >> good evening, chris. thanks for joining us. i have things for you to put in your calendars. six weeks from tonight, it is june 9th, that's a thursday, that is apparently when they are going to start. >> as many as eight hearings now? >> eight is the number at this point. and we are moving forward. >> are you going to start at the beginning of the month? >> at this point, the first hearing is june 9th.
>> and the idea with those public hearings might look like? >> well, they will be a combination of exhibits, staff testimony. and outside witnesses. that's kind of a combination. >> will any of those outside witnesses be people who have testified -- >> some of them will be people [inaudible] and i think their testimony will be on point as to whether this investigation will [inaudible] >> some of them will be people we have not heard from before. their testimony will be on point as to why the testimony is so important. that's a chairman of the january 6th investigation, confirming to reporters tonight, confirming how investigators are going to tell us, tell the public, what they have found.
and to start the evening, they will start june 9th, we believe. we don't know exactly what the format will be or the length of these hearings, how they will do it, but they are planning, at least initially, on having eight hearings. we think they are all going to happen during the calendar month of june. at least that's what appears to be the plan. now they are saying that they are going to start tonight, we shall see. it is interesting, though, having that timeline does give us a bit more information about where they are in the process, if you think about it. chairman thompson confirmed today that they are still taking depositions for witnesses, including more depositions that they took. today but they have been doing all of that behind closed doors. we hear reports about what is happening behind closed doors, we've heard committee members talk about some of what they have learned. but these hundreds of depositions that they have taken, and the review of millions of documents that they have obtained, we now know that
we apparently think that their work overall will be wrapped up within the next six weeks. and we know that because, on the ninth, they are going public. six weeks from tonight those hearings will start, in which they will effectively present their findings. so, we know they only need six more weeks to wrap this up. we also know from some recent reporting, who some of the final witnesses are, who they are planning on bringing in. they include some very recognizable names. the eldest son of former president donald trump, donald trump junior. we also learned today that they heard from we'll hear from rudy giuliani, presumably now no one's lawyer. he has at least temporarily been relieved of his law license. mr. giuliani had been subpoenaed early on in the january 6th investigation. he is apparently now planning to come in sometime soon to testify. we also expect that at least
the request will be made for testimony from some republican members of congress, members who may have been involved in the efforts to overthrow the government or who may at least have been important witnesses to that effort. all the republican members of congress who have thus far been asked to testify -- thus far they have all made a bigshowof refusing to do that. refusing to testify. and the investigators thus far have not wanted to issue any subpoenas to try to force testimony from members of congress. we still don't know how any of that will resolve. but now at least we know the timeframe on which those questions will be answered or not. we know the timeframe on which the matters will be settled. six weeks, because that's when this whole thing goes public. you can mark your calendar. june 9th. julio cortez is a reporter for -- excuse, me a photographer -- for the associated press, a photojournalist. last year, last summer, mr. cortez was one of the ap photographers who is reported a
pulitzer prize, in breaking news photography achievement. this is one of mr. cortez's images that won the pulitzer for the ap. this was an image that he shot in minneapolis in the spring of 2020. but about eight months after he took that image and six months before he learned that he would win the pulitzer for it, photojournalist julio cortez was on the associate press breaking news team that was covering the attack of the u.s. capital on january 6th. it was not actually on january 8th, two days after the attack that he was finally able to upload this footage i'm about toshowyou of a mob of trump supporters attacking him. and also grabbing him and his ap colleague, a man named john monticello, a another prize winning ap photojournalist. they at one point threw him off the railing, mr. mitchell, oh
off of the railing of the capitol. i am going toshowyou some seconds of this video. if you have kids with you who you don't want to see real world violence, this is a warning to you that maybe should be distracting them for about 45 seconds or so. because we are going toshowyou that tape, right now. >> bleep -- >> we are coming for you! [inaudible] >> bleep! >> bleep! >> get -- out of here! >> hey! >> get out of here! [inaudible] >> get the bleep out of here! >> get the bleep out!
bleep! [inaudible] bleep. >> that is ap photographer john montebello being menaced and thrown over the radio. his colleague, julia cortez, being attacked alongside and those men are both pulitzer prize-winning ap photojournalists. incredible, right? lucky to get away with their lives that day, when the trump supporters attacking the capitol decided they would set upon them. you can see that they are press. you can clearly see, mr. manchin low, at least, seeing camera lenses hanging off of his gear and you can see his camera. they are trying to tear him apart. and lest you think that was an isolated incident that they are that they did not mean it, this of course happen on the same day, same place, that you may remember. >> oh, oh!
>> well! >> oh! >> [inaudible] >> they are saying cnn, succession and socks, while they smash all that visual equipment, all that journalism equipment, lights and microphones and cabling. they are saying cnn socks. because that is the chant that trump used to lead at his rallies. i don't think it matter to the crowd that none of that equipment was cnn equipment. it was, i think, again, associated press equipment. what did they care? i mean, subtlety and precision was never really the point here. the point is something else, something much more obvious. and i had been thinking today about that explosion of violence from trump supporters, against the media on january 6th, against reporters and photojournalist on january 6th. i have been thinking about that today because of what we have just learned about this man. this is the nobel peace prize
acceptance speech from this past year and ian warded the nobel peace prize this year to a journalist from the philippines and to this man who see on the right side of your screen, who has been the editor for decades of a newspaper, novaya gazeta, an independent newspaper. and his life's work has been trying to keep the independent press in russia alive, by keeping novaya gazeta alive. and i mean literally, alive, and repeated that word, because it is important to know how often the reporters who work at novaya gazeta have been murdered for their work. one of the most celebrated investigative journalists was a reporter for novaya gazeta, and much of what the world knows about putin's wars in chechnya we know about her incredible reporting about it. she published a book in 2004 called putin's russia basically sounding the alarm for the west
about what kind of man putin was and what his plans were for his ability to use power in russia and to use the russian state team. anna politkovskaya was murdered two years after she published that book. in the midst of her ongoing investigative reporting, she was murdered. joe is one of six reporters for that one newspaper who were all murdered in russia before putin got to the end of his first decade in power. six different reporters from novaya gazeta all killed in less than ten years. but novaya gazeta kept going. and for the nobel peace prize, mr. dimitri muratov was recognized, its leader, for the increasingly impossible work of just keeping going, just continuing to do journalism over the threat of this mist asked the sizing violent putin government and mr. murtaugh of dedicated the nobel peace prize
to his murdered employees, his murdered reporters, including anna politkovskaya. in his speech, and this was in late december, he warned that russia was preparing its own population for war. and preparing its own population to hate ukrainians and not see them as human. and he warned that russia was prepared to wants launch a war against ukraine. this was him giving that speech, december 10th, 2021 in oslo. this was him three weeks ago, april 7th. he was on the train out of moscow. and they attacked him with red paint mixed with acetone. it chemically burned his eyes. he survived. but he was hurt. again, this is the current peace prize laureate. he has vowed to stay in russia, even as the russian government has finally succeeded in shutting down his paper, in
shutting down novaya gazeta and all other independent journalism in russia. putin, of, horse has put in place this new law that puts you in prison for 15 years if you even reported on or describe the war against ukraine. and while dmitry murátov has promised he will stay in russia, and he has nearly died for that, he's novaya gazeta reporters and editors who have fled russia, they have just recently opened up a new paper, a new entity, they call it novaya gazeta europe, because they can no longer be in russia while they publish it. they are publishing in exile. a dramatic statement from unnamed u.s. intelligence officials -- you can see the headline there from the post. uss russian intelligence orchestrated attack on nobel laureate. the u.s. government has assessed that russian intelligence was behind an attack early this month on a nobel prize winner and
prominent russian editor who criticize the kremlin's war on ukraine. dimitri muratov, editor of the independent russian newspaper novaya gazeta was about to travel to train when an assailant mixed him attacked him with a mixture of red paint and acetone, leaving his eyes with a chemical burn. u.s. intelligence has concluded that the incident was the work of russian intelligence, according to his official he spoke on the condition of anonymity under rosette by the biden administration. the official did not give any detail about how the officials had come to make the assessment, citing the need to protect sources. the officials said in a statement, quote, the united states can confirm that russian intelligence orchestrated the april 7th attack on novaya gazeta's editor in chief, dmitry murátov, in which he was smashed with red paint containing acetone. so, they are making the official who is confirming that finding stay anonymous, under biden administration rules, which itself is tension with
the press. right? but the biden administration is also making that assessment public, saying that they know enough to be able to blame russian intelligence for doing this. this was not some vigilante attack on the editor. this was putin's government going after this journalist. the current nobel peace laureate. they are blaming russia for its overtly, saying it's u.s. intelligence who knows what they did, they are letting russia know they knew what they did by telling our own press about it. and this have not happen in a vacuum. this is happening as our own political right is quite deep into it's presses the enemy of the people phase. this weekend is the white house correspondents association dinner, which the last president did not go to in his whole time in office, and not just because of covid. it's because the last president literally campaigned against there being a free chris. he campaigned on that enemy of the people phrase, which he borrowed from stalin.
this weekend, for the first time in three years, the correspondents dinner is back on. the biden white house is getting a bit of a hard time, understandably, about the fact that president biden is planning to go to the dinner in person. it is understandable. they are getting a hard time for that. it's a controversial decision, it's going to be 2000 people in an indoor ballroom. the president is 79. the vice president currently now already has covid. i mean, i get it, in terms of why covid concerns are enough to maybe make you not want to see president biden attend this event in person. however, i see the other side. it means something. it is something important in this moment, now, both domestically and for our role in the world. it means something for u.s. president toshowup, to stand for the press, to stand with the press. even as the press, i am sure, it drives this president just as bananas as we have every other politician since the dawn of time. that is what we do.
but right now it is particularly important for the u.s. president to stand with the press. because there really is an opposing side here. right? from the other side of american politics. >> now, you know we have a lot of fake news back there. that fake news. i am talking about the fake news media, they are truly an enemy of the people. the fake news media right back there. it is the enemy of the people, our media, is the enemy of the people. it's very, very dangerous what they did. >> the repetition is part of the point here. the repetition is part of how that works. the repetition is how it stops seeming shopping and start seeing seeming like something that resonates. and that has sunk in. doing that for that long, doing that for the last seven years, that has sunk in. that has changed things. at this point, there are not going to be any debates between
the next two candidates in the next presidential election. the republican party says they are done, they are not doing that anymore. because whether or not the republican party's presidential candidate next time around is going to be donald trump, the party itself has decided this year that they can never abide by the fact that it is reported to ask questions at presidential debates. and therefore, there will be no presidential debates in 2024. it's a remarkable decision. and it is on the basis of the fact that the press is involved in asking the questions. the republican party can no longer abide by that. it is less controversial, and has received way less attention than that. but in republican-controlled states this year, we have seen a whole rash of moves and restrictions put in place, that ban reporters from covering state governments, from covering state legislatures. and utah, in kansas, in iowa. when they decide to ban reporters from the iowa legislature this year broke what was otherwise a 140 or
unbroken tradition. for 140 years it worked have reporters they are asking legislators questions. this year, with this republican party, in a league works. reporters are banned. last fall, the republican governor of missouri, mike parson, asked law enforcement to pursue charges against a local reporter in missouri, because that reporter reported accurately on a security flaw in the state computer systems. the governor actually got state law enforcement to investigate that reporter for months, as if there were some crime in that reporting. they actually tried to bring charges against the reporter. but no prosecutor would do it. i didn't actually think it would get much worse than what we saw from mike parson in missouri. but then, this week -- hello california -- fox news darling conservative sheriff of los angeles county convened a press conference in which he put a reporters photo on a big poster. he is pointing to it there with a pointy stick. the sign says, what did she
know and when did she know it? and he pointed at that reporter, who was in fact covering the press conference. he said she was going to be the subject of a criminal investigation for this tacitly reporting she was doing on scandals in the sheriff's office. and addition to putting up her photo, he put up a list of alleged crimes. who is pretty sure this reporter might have committed on scandals in his office. we cover this earlier on theshow, earlier this week. we can report tonight after a furious pushback, that that sheriff is now pretending he never did that. it's one thing to change your mind and say, okay, my bad, i get carried away. it's another thing to say, oh, no, i didn't do that, you dastardly people, for saying that they did. let's all forget that that happened. how about we don't? that hero we porter from the los angeles times is actually going to be here tonight for a first national interview, he will be our guest coming up in just a few minutes.
but this idea that there is a supposed terrible threat from the press and that reporters are not just irritating the people in power, but actually criminal, that the freedom of the press is a threat that must be destroyed, physically destroyed, i mean, this is something that we should be fluent in them. i mean, this is an issue that is not hiding its light under a bushel. this is not something that you really have to go looking too hard for. on january 6th, they really did carve the phrase, murder the media, into the u.s. capital. they left that behind. presumably they meant it. this is a thing that we should be able to see clearly. and even when they are doing it in a way that is more stupid than scary it is the same thing and a tactical pattern that we should recognize and be able to think clearly about. this thing we covered last night, with the ridiculous
trump deposition that gave rise to 100 million fruit pictures today. in this deposition he said, you could be killed if someone threw a tomato at you, that that's a lethal threat that must be met with maximum force. that, undoubtedly, was hilarious it's ridiculous. but that came at a deposition, in a case where trump is trying to not be held accountable for his security guards beating up protesters. and the pressure from the way that he talks about protesters, the way he would like people protesting -- the threat of beating up anti trump protesters makes protests protests will trump rallies more fun. he would like to be able to do that. how do you get to do that? how do you get away with something like that? hype some non existent threat to justify and provide a pretext. for whatever thing you want to do and get away with it. if you want to beat up protesters, and you find it fun, but the worst thing that anyone
can say about the threat is that one of them once was rumored to have a tomato, well, describe tomato as a lethal threat them. anybody protesting against you is a lethal threat. and therefore they deserve maximum force. it's the same tactical pattern over and over. locker up. right? locker, up lock her up. what was the extensive bill reason that they were going to lock her up? because she used her personal email account when she was working at the state department. yes, that's it, and that such a threat to the very divisions of america that she must be locked up, he must be jailed for that. she should be executed for treason for that. never mind that is it is impossible to find anybody in the trump administration who did not use the personal email. never mind that trump literally trucked boxes of highly classified material to mar-a-lago and left lying around at his golf course. there is actually a real
concern about the handling of classified information or government material being stored or handled improperly. there isn't a real, perceived threat here. but if you can talk about that threat as if it's the worst thing in the world, well, you can use it as a pretext for what you want to do. and if what you want to do is failure opposition, or have them killed, well, hype some nonexistent threat that you attached to them, beyond all recognition to justify. that is how you build a pretext that you need. voting fraud. actual voting fraud. all voting twice for trump would notice. and all the voting factors. you take that infinitesimal, total non consequential threat
and turn it into a mechanized, strong cabal using south korean planes and venezuelan and italian -- and jewish space lasers. and soon voting fraud as the end of america. which surely is enough to justify when it is we want to do in the first place. which is stop abiding by actual election results, taking power by force and insistence. voting fraud is so extremely definitely we need martial law. really? well if you make essential threaten you just buy anything response a threat. this is not something we invented. this is not something the trump era invented. i mean russia-ukraine in february tongue the russian people it was because ukraine was a military threat gearing up to attack russia. really, russia is 3000% larger than ukraine. that's like saying the town of panorama was going to invade mexico. or that aruba was going to invade china.
but still, make the claim. find a threat, invent a threat or find one somewhere. and hype it beyond comprehension. neutralized the bizarreness of that supposed overhype, supposed and overhyped threat. neutralize the bizarreness of it through propagandistic mass repetition. and then go. lock her up. press is the enemy of the people. ukrainians to be de militarized and did not see fide. take, invent a threat out of whole cloth or take the smallest thing in the world and blow it up into something incomprehensibly massive. and bingo, you have the pretext for anything that you want to do. the time that we are in is the overlap in the venn diagram between stupid and scary. you are here. this kind of tactic that we are
seeing against the press, against voting, against political opponents. it is a tactic that is not new. it's a tactic that we did not invent in this country. but if we can see it more clearly, if we can get more fluent about it. and talking about amongst ourselves. one of the things we will quickly learn is that we can turn to our advantage the learned experience of the people who have gone before us and faced it and thought of before we had to. and that is what we're going to do here tonight. stay with us, bigshowahead. ith us, bigshowahead as i used to be. my wife introduced me to prevagen and so i said "yeah, i'll try it out." i noticed that i felt sharper, i felt like i was able to respond to things quicker. and i thought, yeah, it works for me. prevagen. healthier brain. better life. ♪ we could walk forever ♪
( ♪♪ ) ♪ walking on ♪ ♪ walking on the moon ♪ ♪ some ♪ ♪ may say ♪ ♪ i'm wishing my days away ♪ ♪ no way ♪ ♪ walking on the moon ♪
allergies don't have to be scary. spraying flonase daily stops your body from ♪ no way ♪ overreacting to allergens all season long. psst! psst! flonase all good. you know liberty mutual customizes your car insurance, so you only pay for what you need? oh, like how i customized this scarf? wow, first time? check out this backpack i made for marco.
oh yeah? well, check out this tux. oh, nice. that'll go perfect with these. dude... those are so fire. [whines] only pay for what you need. ♪liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty.♪ under district attorney gascón, i prosecuted car break-ins. all repeat offenders, often in organized crime rings. but when chesa boudin took office, he dissolved the unit and stopped me from collaborating with the police on my cases. now home and car break-ins are on the rise because repeat offenders know they can get away with it. chesa boudin is failing to do his job. there's a better way to keep san francisco safe. recall chesa boudin now. the only discussion i would
have with him is that i think this will pass. and it would be my recommendation that you should resign. >> mr. mccarthy flat out and categorically denied that
today. he denied that he said he would tell trump to resign. that he said he woul tell trump t in 2010, you historian tim snyder published a new history kind of a shocking new history of world war ii professional specialize in the history of central eastern europe and the book was called blood lands. europe tween hitler and stalin. that book took on really for the first time would happened in total on the land east of roland and west of moscow between 1933 and 1945. he elected to do something that nobody had ever really try to do about that geography and the world in that time. he told a single history, a single story of the 14 million people who were killed in that part of the world while both hitler and stalin help power. 40 million people who were not
soldiers. civilian non combatants, not people who are caught in the cross fire while countries were trying to kill each other soldiers. these were victims of mass killings, sanctioned by policy. in western russia, in belarus, in poland, and ukraine, the baltic states, all the same place, all from two different dictators over a 12-year time span. again, not war casualties in the sense of combatants but were casualties in the sense of mass killings being a policy. professor snyder's book is recognized and was soon recognized as a gigantic achievement in modern history. it's of course, all the more relevant because the war in ukraine now. this week, professor snyder published an updated paperback version of blood lands. this one has a new afterward which authors of the company -- can do very work -- in it among many other things professor snyder reflects on his contribution to popularizing the use of the term, the big lie. in reference to form presidents
trump effort to basically overthrow the u.s. government last year. persuading his followers to believe the big lie, that the 2020 election was somehow stolen even though there was never ever any evidence to support that. snider says in his new afterward quote, the big lie, a term that originates with hitler, became central to american political discourse after i applied to trump's claim to have won an election that he lost. the concept of the big lie which i reintroduced discussion in 2019 and 2020, helped millions of people see how mendacity of a certain scale of facts politics overtime. making democracy ever more difficult. joining us now is timothy snyder, he is professor of history at yale university. he is the author of blood land, your between hillary and stolen. it is out and you didn't just week. professor snyder, really nice of you here in this person. nice to see you. let me ask you about that last quote that i just read. mendacity of a certain scale. how mendacity of a certain
scale affects politics overtime. can you just tell us what you mean? >> well that's the public relations advice is from hitler. hiller says if you tell a lie that's of a certain scale, that's big enough, people won't believe that you could deceive them on that scale. and since they believe and they taken first, they don't want to disbelieve later on. it becomes part of their life, becomes will we now call in article and of reality because it shows politics. then because substantially just alina marie but in policy. you act as if it's true, and then you move on to do things as though it were true. so in our example, if we pretend that trump won the election 2020, then we have an argument for suppressing votes. because we can say well there was fraud therefore we should suppress votes. >> it's because of the sort of commitment part of that, it makes it feel undoable. because if x number of people become invested in it because
they have once believed it. and it would challenge their understanding of who they are and they're worth in the world to lose that belief in it. it makes me worry about the ability to sort of underwire people to learn the truth. >> this is why lying is so dangerous and politics. we've gotten very casual about lying. we have a very casualty will bring us the truth or the reporters. we've gotten very casual about the historians, we're passing memory laws in this country just as russia has passed memory was. and there's a law designed in both cases to allow us to avoid the difficult little truths and i prevent us from investing in the big lies. and the problem of the citizens in the big lie is, people in general in the big lies. is that once you do something for example storm a capitol. once you do something that makes it more true. so the politicians tell the big lie, but once we are brought in, once we do something or in this book for example. once you kill on the basis of a big lie, then the big lie really has to be true. >> one of the things that i
have sort of taken with me from the lands. is the idea that people need to be erased and countries need to be released and certain identities need to be a race for the purposes of other countries, other leaders, other imperatives. and so, talking for example about the mass murder of the polish elite. so that the polish people would somehow, could somehow be a race from history, that the idea of pulling as a place customer be subverted into some of the things that were politically useful for the attackers. that kind of elimination is planning not just societal but literally to erase the idea of a people. we are seeing that so overtly in the way that putin is talking about ukraine. right now. i am very worried that we are starting to talk in elimination's terms about some of our fellow americans. the way that we're using, not just epithets but also classifications of people. not just our political opponents but as inhuman. >> the german invasion of poland and 39 has really been
on my mind to. because it's not just how putin is describing ukrainians, as you say, he says ukrainians are nation, they're not really a state. and as china's i talk. that's how you talk before you try to eliminate the nation. and the state. but it's not just talk, this is this war of aggression is also a war destruction. they've to point about 1 million ukrainians, that's a considerable share the population. they're shooting the local elites. they're killing the man, they think are capable of taking part in military activity. they're reeducating the teachers. and the children. they're going through with this idea, as best they can, of trying to eliminate the ukrainian nation. and you're right, it all starts with top and that's why we look on these examples of how russians treat their history, how they treat their reporters, how they treat their language. and we have to learn these lessons in time. because as you say, if we talk about our own reporters, our own fellow citizens in the same way. then we're preparing ourselves to do terrible things. >> timothy snyder, you know him here on theshowis the author of on tyranny which we have
discussed many times here on theshow. the book that is seen as his sort of totem in the world of modern history. it's called blood lands and it's now a new addition as of this week with a new afterward about the world today. doctor snyder, it's an honor to have you here. thanks. all right, we'll be right back, stay with us. t back stay with us asya agulnik md: st. jude was founded with an understanding that no child should die in the dawn of life. to work with many partners all over the world, nothing stops in the way of us achieving that mission, not even war. marta salek md: when there is a need,
people stand up and do what is right and ensure that they restart medical therapy as quickly as possible. carlos rodriguez-galindo md: any child suffering today of cancer update for you tonight on the is our responsibility.


story we covered earlier this week that got a big reaction from you, so i want to tell you
how this worked out. l.a. times reporter a lean check imagine publish video last month of an extreme use of force incident and l.a. county jail. she also reported on internal documents showing that officials in the sheriff's department including the sheriff himself had tried to cover that incident up in order to avoid that press. so the sheriff, whose name is alex valieva. he said no that is true here she's learned about this incident till months of what happened. he took immediate action as soon as he knew about it. that's where the story stood this week when that same l.a. times reporter reported that a courting to a commander in the department the sheriff had actually viewed a video of the incident five days after it had happened and he said at the time to other sheriffs of his employees quote we do not need by media at this time. l.a. times broke that story on monday and then all he double hockey sticks broke out on tuesday sheriff villaneuva conveyed a press conference. not just dispute all this reporting but also to go after
the l.a. times's reporter and threatened her a lean check mention was on the front row for that press conference this is her beach covering the story after sheriff villanova denied her reporting he then put up this poster a huge photo of the l.a. times reporter. also one of his political rivals for the auto position of county sheriff also the county inspector general. he said all three of these people were now subjects of a criminal investigation. and a how -- got the security footage that she reported. here is a clip of him confronting the reporter and then being asked for directly to clarify what he's saying. >> i don't have people reporters like from the l.a. times maybe you need to start clarifying exactly what you did with this and when did you, who do you get from and when did you get from. so that's a question for you to answer. so with that, we're not going to take a question from you. anybody else is a question? >> can i ask you a question? >> go ahead frank. >> is alien from the l.a. times
underestimation by the apartment. are you gonna answer the question, you place her picture up there. alongside two other people. you talked about in terms of a criminal investigation. is this los angeles times reporter under investigation by the department? >> well the act is under investigation. all parties to the act are subject of the investigation. >> all parties to the act, her reporting, are subject to the investigation. hours after the sheriff denied he ever said that. he said reports of him saying that were an incredible frenzy of misinformation. we're quoting you. since the press conference on tuesday the l.a. times has published a statement condemning the sheriff's actions the general counsel for the paper sent a blistering letter saying in part quote if the department actually initiate investigation of miss check mention. it would contravene will establish constitutional law which bars prosecutions of news reporters from publishing information from confidential
records including manners a public interest although i would've susan with your position will be front let this letter leave no doubt that any attempt to prosecute her flatten her with prosecutions as your announcement appeared to intend to do is maybe severe official position there was subject new in the county to legal liability. paper general counsel than for the survivors that he saw retain any documents of communications related to this matter. i should also tell you that despite these direct threats, she has faced, l.a. times reported alina check mention continues to do her job. and continues to advance this story. today, she published a new eyewitness account from one to serve villain wave us close advisor which for their cooperates her previous reporting that pfizer says she personally brought a dvd of the use of force and has into the sheriff and she watched it with him and yet i was only five days after the us and took place. they have gone after her with
the force of the sheriff's department because she has had the temerity to report on the sheriff's department. the reporter joins us next, stay with us. s next stay with us if you've been living with heart disease, reducing cholesterol can be hard, even when you're taking a statin and being active. but you can do hard. you lived through thirty-seven red-eye flights in a middle seat. eleven miracle diets... forty-two college campus tours... four overseas postings... one minor stroke... and four citywide blackouts... and now, with leqvio, you can lower your cholesterol, too. when taken with a statin, leqvio is proven to lower bad cholesterol by over 50% and keep it there with two doses a year.
common side effects of leqvio were injection site reaction, joint pain, urinary tract infection, diarrhea, chest cold, pain in legs or arms, and shortness of breath. with leqvio, lowering cholesterol becomes just one more thing life throws your way. ask your doctor if leqvio is right for you. lower. longer. leqvio.
if you have advanced non-small cell lung cancer, your first treatment could be a chemo-free combination of two immunotherapies that works differently. it could mean a chance to live longer. opdivo plus yervoy is for adults newly diagnosed with non-small cell lung cancer that has spread, tests positive for pd-l1, and does not have an abnormal egfr or alk gene. together, opdivo plus yervoy helps your immune system launch a response that fights cancer in two different ways. opdivo plus yervoy equals a chance for more time together. more family time. more time to remember. opdivo and yervoy can cause your immune system to harm healthy parts of your body during and after treatment. these problems can be severe and lead to death.
see your doctor right away if you have a cough; chest pain; shortness of breath; irregular heartbeat; diarrhea; constipation; severe stomach pain, nausea or vomiting; dizziness; fainting; eye problems; extreme tiredness; changes in appetite, thirst or urine; rash; itching; confusion; memory problems; muscle pain or weakness; joint pain; flushing; or fever. these are not all the possible side effects. problems can occur together and more often when opdivo is used with yervoy. tell your doctor about all medical conditions including immune or nervous system problems, if you've had or plan to have an organ or stem cell transplant, or received chest radiation. here's to a chance to live longer. ask your doctor about the combination of two immunotherapies, opdivo plus yervoy. thank you to all those in our clinical trials. - [narrator] it's a mixed up world. and the way we work looks a little different. but whether you embrace the new normal or just want to get back to the routines that feel right, x-chair continues to be at the forefront of change, which is why we've launched the all new x-chair with elemax. elemax combines gentle body temperature regulation with stress melting massage to increase your comfort working from home or at the office.
feel more refreshed in seconds with dual fans that actively deliver a clean air flow or you can wrap your back in the soothing warmth of heat therapy and access four combinations of massage for deep relief from tension. our patented dynamic variable lumbar support and scifloat infinite recline technology remain unchanged. order an x-chair with elemax today. use code tv and get $50 off plus a free foot rest. hey, change happened and we've made it a good thing with all new elemax from x-chair. now the future feels better than ever before. order x-chair with elemax today. use code tv and get $50 off plus a free foot rest. alene tchekmedyian is a staff writer for the los angeles times. she recently broke the story that an l.a. county sheriff's deputy had kneeled on the head of a handcuffed man inside the l.a. county jail for three
solid minutes. she then broke the story of the department including the sheriff himself covering that incident up. but sheriff than convene a press conference this week to announce he was criminally investigating alene tchekmedyian for her reporting. after a ferocious defense of the reporter by among others hump lawyer, the sheriff now says he never actually did that it was all a big misunderstanding. he is so misunderstood. alene tchekmedyian joins us now live from los angeles. miss tchekmedyian thank you so much for being with us tonight, i'm sorry for weeks been like. >> thank you for having me on. >> let me just ask you about what it was like at that press conference. i read the story and thought i absorbed most of it before i did a kind of double take when i realized you were there, you are sitting in the front row. while he was making this announcement that you are under investigation. where was that like? >> yeah, you know, it was so surreal at first when i saw my photo up on his slideshow.
that i sort of chuckled a little bit. and then i held my phone to take a photo because it was just kind of absurd. but i really didn't want to get distracted because i really had a long list of questions to ask. that i had to do my phone and i was just trying to keep the focus on that. and there ended up being a lot that i couldn't ask that was my priority at the time. >> i know that after the press conference, your employer, the l.a. times report to you. very publicly. and i know that a lot of press freedom groups came out absolutely hair on fire just shocked by with the sheriff had done in your defense. can i ask what that process has been like, i imagine that most of just been almost as surreal? >> yeah, it was really overwhelming to feel that much support. i kind of walked out of the press conference thinking, you know, okay that was bizarre. but i really don't expected to blow of that a way that it did. and the outpouring of support that i got from texas and
tweets and the letter the l.a. times lawyer sent and the statement from our executive editor. just so fiercely defending our right to news gather. and all the statements that you mention from press freedom groups and even encouragement for some sources which is amazing i felt really really supported. >> incursions from sources a nice thing to hear because obviously part of what is going on here is an effort to sort of perform a kind of anti press toughness which i think is in some ways popular in certain political theories right now. but it was also directly to intimidate you. that's why i think it's been really important to see your byline continuing to push this forward. the story obviously is not over, you've done more than anybody to get to the bottom of it. but i imagine that the effort to intimidate you, you have to materially feel it but it seems like the stories very much alive. and your sources are still talking to you.
>> yeah. i plan to keep digging into it and following it where it goes. and it seems like people are willing to still talk with me wishes, very helpful. >> [laughs] it's a core benefit and necessity to what we do, what we all do. alene tchekmedyian, stafford for los angeles times who's been out front of an important story about the use of force inside an l.a. county jail and the effort to cover it up and who has paid for it and has been defended while she is doing it. miss tchekmedyian, good luck, keep going, come back anytime. >> thank you so much. >> we'll be right back, stay with us. ck, stay with us. preparation h. get comfortable with it. wayday! wayfair's biggest sale of the year is here. right now for two days only, april 27th and 28th.
save on all the upgrades you need to refresh your space your way. that's why we carry a large selection of kitchen faucets. so that your little update can make a big difference. wayfair has all the easy upgrades. from cabinet hardware to peel and stick tile. and with the lowest prices of the year on everything from bathtubs to vanities. even your big projects are no big deal. ♪ wayfair, you've got just what i need ♪ we just moved so there's millions- -of dahlias in bloom over 9 acres. ♪ when we started, we grew a quarter of an acre. -now i'm taking on new projects on the regular. ♪ we always dreamed of having this property so— -i wanna make my yard look as beautiful as- largemouth bass. we've got tons of 'em don't we buddy? there are millions of ways to make the most of your land.
how will you make the most of yours? get a 1 series tractor starting at $109 per month. ♪ ♪ limu emu ♪ and doug. ♪ harp plays ♪ only two things are forever: love and liberty mutual customizing your car insurance, so you only pay for what you need. (emu squawks) if anyone objects to this marriage, speak now or forever hold your peace. (emu squawks) (the crowd gasps) no, kevin, no! not today. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ if you watch theshowyou have

seen the work of an artist, a courtroom sketch artist named are lean. federal courts don't allow cameras so we have needed our lean to be able to visualize laws of the proceedings we've
covered here over the years including lots of trump era favorites like paul manafort and steve bannon the supreme court justices themselves at work. arthur lane started work as a corn artist in 1976 he's an unparalleled talent and a very niche and important part of public life. he was the only quorum artist allowed into the first military tribunals at guantánamo. and the early days of the pandemic he adapted to virtual supreme court proceedings by getting lawyers to send him photos of themselves making their oral arguments. he then turn those photos into sketches. this sketch captures stephen breyer's last case as a supreme court justice. it's also our's final sketch for the supreme court because he is also retiring at the end of the supreme court term. he is retiring at the height of his powers, so art lien you have no idea how much we have dependent on you all these years. happy retirement, mr. lien. great respect. that's going to do it for us tonight many hassan is going to be here tomorrow night i will see