rachelmaddowshowhosted by the only russia mounted. were you expecting the drumroll to be a little bit longer, and maybe have a little high had enough? >> i rushed through because i have to budge at the time a little bit of cross talk because rachael is back, i missed her. often want to eat into hershow, so special but. >> thank you very much my friend, it is good to be back. i'm super rusty saw hoping that people stick around tonight if only to see me inevitably scrub. >> i doubt that will happen, two things, ali didn't amazing job in your absence, and we missed you a ton, and it's great to see your face on my screen here, so welcome back. >> thanks a lot, much appreciated. thanks a lot,thanks to you at r joining us this hour, it's nice to be back. it's really nice to be back.
if this faces not seem familiar, if you are not quite used to seeing somebody else at this hour, hello, it's nice to meet you, i'mrachel. i've been away from theshowfor a few weeks. i took a hiatus to give myself a little reset and also to work on some other msnbc projects that i've got cooking. i gotta tell you, the hiatus has been fantastic. i am really grateful for it. i know it is an unusual thing to get in this business. i'm very grateful to msnbc and the president for letting me do it. i'm profoundly grateful to the staff on theshowto keep everything running, we're doing such great work will always gone. and, as chris mentioned there, i am also grateful almost beyond words for ali velshi in particular, and for my other colleagues who filled in for me while i was away. if you can tell from the way that all the rest of us talk about him, you should know that all evil she really is a prince
among men. he has been in ukraine and in bordering countries for five straight weeks covering the war, hosting theshow, hosting his own shrill. he's been doing incredible work literally around the clock. all the while, just being a great and generous and upstanding person, and a great coworker to everyone here works with. i'm telling you, you should be so lucky to ever have a coworker as great as ali velshi. we are incredibly lucky to have him here at msnbc, and i'm really grateful that he home things so ably while i was gone. i sort of feel like i have a big shoe to fill coming back, we haven't won a good job he's been doing. but i am back, i said when i love before that i might eventually be taking another hiatus later on this year. that things were fluid, we'd be taking it one step at a time. that's also true-ish. but, one of the things i realize while i was on hiatus working on these other projects
these past few weeks, one of the things i realized is that i actually don't really need another hiatus. this one was great, but i think only need the one. or do still have all these other irons in the fire, all these other things i'm working on that i want to bring to fruition. none of them are fast, all of them take a long time, i'm still working on all of them. but i don't think i need another big stretch of time off. so here's the plan. i'm back, i'm gonna be here all this month monday through thursday night. now, for big news events, like the lead up to the election, i will be here. but that is the general plan. i will be here this month, monday through thursday nights, and then starting next month, starting in may, i'm gonna be here weekly. i'm gonna be here on monday nights, again, to give myself just more time to work on some of the other stuff that i've got cooking for msnbc and nbc. so, monday to thursday night
this month, starting next month will be here weekly. and again, this might change. we will see how things go. but, that is the plans of no. so, now you know. and we will never speak of it again. enough of that, let's start theshow, we have a lot to get to tonight. as i mentioned, in addition to having hosting duties on theshow, ali velshi has been hosting his ownshowon the weekends here as well. he has been hosting from ukraine and from bordering countries where's been for these last few weeks. and i mention this because yesterday, if you caught alleys on this nbcshow, you would've seen him interviewing this gentleman on the right side of your screen here. for a long time you are of theshow, that guest might look familiar to you. his name as volodymyr kara mart so. he apparently haunt the dreams
of vladimir putin. the first major opposition figure to a marriage as a potential rival to vladimir putin was an entrepreneur billionaire. he ran the one russian oil company that actually knew it was doing. his name most mikhail khodorovsky. actually, i wrote about this extensively in the book i wrote a couple of years ago called law. if you ever want to read this back story here, i think it is an amazing story. but basically, this guy, this entrepreneur billionaire guy, he became the richest businessman in russia. he then challenged putin. he made this public challenge that russia needs to be a real democracy, and the dawn of the government needs to stop doing everything and be corrupt. that was such a threat to vladimir putin, that putin had him arrested on made-up charges. seized his company, and took it from self. and then putin had the guy locked up in prison for a decade. after you got out of prison, at the end of a decade, he fled the country. he now lives in exile.
but michael khodorovsky founded a pro democracy group that operates internationally. it's called open russia. and it advocates for democracy in russia. for civil society. it advocates against corruption in russia. that, of course, is very threatening to vladimir putin after khodorovsky self threatened him. when was done threatened by the organization that he founded. and so, putin of course had the organization banned. he had open russia declared illegal. but until open russia was banned, the guy who is running it was volodymyr kern marta. and he keeps popping up in places like this. the next real critical rival to vladimir putin was this man, a charismatic opposition named boris nemtsov. he was brilliant, really well spoken. he was a physicist by training, he was six foot five. he had a lot of different prominent offices and russia, including being deputy prime minister. and he emerged ultimately as this outspoken crusader against
corruption in the russian government. and so, naturally, just like khodorovsky before him, boris nemtsov emerged as a huge threat to putin. for one thing, he was another real, credible challenger to putin. and, so of course, he had to go to. with him, they didn't go through the trouble that they went through the loyal guy. they didn't go through the trouble of arresting him and jailing him and stealing his company and exiling him. for boris nemtsov, they want a simpler route, they just killed him. four bullets in the back. as he walked along the street just outside the kremlin. that was in 2015. but here, to, again, we find our friend vladimir karen moore saw. there's a foundation for boris nemtsov, and every year they gave the boris nemtsov prize for courage, and upholding democratic values. kara-murza runs this
foundation. he runs the foundation those founded by michael gorkov ski. he runs the foundation, founded in the name of boris nemtsov. the pattern here is clear. part of the way vladimir putin stays in power in russia is that he keeps imprisoning and killing all the opposition figures and russia. they've got alexei navalny in jail now after nearly killing him with boys and. boris nemtsov, they had him gunned down on the street. but the opposition, it keeps trying. it keeps going. volodymyr carroll mart so, linked all these opposition figures, a very high-profile opposition figure in his own right. carrying out the work to keep the opposition alive. in russia. literally, a life. and politically alive. and he has paid the price for it to. in 2015, lawmaker mud saw was
poisoned. him, to. multiple organ failure. you have to learn to walk again. it took him a year and a half to recover when he was poisoned in 2015. but he lived. and then two years later, he was traveling in russia, inside russia, providing a documentary about the life and assassination of boris nemtsov. somehow, lawmaker marshall was poisoned again. twice in two years in an out of a coma. multiple organ failure, again. his wife somehow got him out of russian into the united states for him to recover here. doctors here told him that he had a 5% chance of survival. but he survived. and in 2017 when he was still recovering from the second assassination attempt, in fact, he was right here on theshow. >> we saw the offices of alexei navalny's organization get run sucked and have all of their computers and paperwork some
stuff getting arrested. open russia getting back on this week. the raid on your offices there this week. how do you maintain any sort of momentum? any sort of organizing structure against that? >> well, i mean, the other side, if you look at it formally, they have the law enforcement agencies. we have the entire propaganda machine. they have the whole part of the state on their sides. and that is the truth. >> we have something much more important, truth. volodymyr kara mart so, russian opposition figure. as vladimir putin's war against ukraine grinds on now, wherein like day 44, 45. as tonight, we feel the first unconfirmed reports that russian forces may have used a chemical weapon in ukraine. as the number of russians arrested for opposing putin's
war dwarfs the number of arrests we saw even from the furthest and russian 2012 and 2017. as putin has now eliminated the last vestiges of the independent press in that country, as he has made it a criminal act even call the war in ukraine a war. as tens of thousands of russian citizens have fled their own country, probably permanently, to escape putin and what he is doing no to russia as you wages this war. this man, vladimir car mart so, has stayed to try to keep the opposition to putin alive. or perhaps, to die trying. yesterday, he spoke with ali velshi from moscow. today vladimir kara-murza was arrested by the authorities. it was first reported by dissident champion by the boris them sun foundation which he leads. mr. kara-murza was taken
earlier today by russian authorities. his whereabouts tonight are unknown. when he spoke with ali just yesterday, i don't want to say that he knew it was coming, but he knew it was and russia at this time still speaking his mind. and he was eyes open, facing it head on. >> are you worried about speaking out against the russian government, and against this foreign invasion from russia? >> we all know the price, we all know the cost. we also know that there are millions of people in russia. many of them that are opposing the regime, both in terms of domestic oppression on terms of war. there are many people in russia who run our country and they wanted to be a normal, democratic, european state,. i think will be very demoralizing for us who are public faces of the pro democracy movement if we'll just leave the country. if you're asking about me, i'm
a russian politician. russia's my country. russia's my home. and this is where i have to be. >> i'm worried for you my friend, you have been the source of my information for many years, so i will worry on your behalf. >> that was yesterday, ali telling vladimir kara-murza how worried he was on his behalf. but, again, mr. kara-murza, russian opposition leader, who twice already survived assassination attempts, today he was seized by russian authorities. arrested after giving an interview to cnn, and after giving that interview to msnbc just yesterday. other opposition activists and russia reportedly gone tonight where the police station where they believe he may have been taken. they are calling for his release. we'll let you more as we learn more. in ukraine today, the pentagon confirmed the reports we've seen for several days that russia appears to be massing both troops and equipment in
eastern ukraine. and it is not a minor shift according to the pentagon. it's 50, 60,000 russian troops in ukraine's east now with aircraft equipment that appears to be that they are preparing for a massive new offensive. satellite imagery shows an eight-mile long russian military convoy in the east. it's near ukraine's second largest city, its largest city in the, east kharkiv. the cranial variance lavar bin david, fighting off a relentless and brutal goliath. but, again, with new and, as, yet unconfirmed reports that russia may have use a chemical weapon in the city of mariupol. and with confirmed reports that russia appears to be preparing a whole new, massive scale assault on the eastern part of the country. how much proverbial gas those the green side have in the tank? how well resourced are they?
how much more they have to give? how much longer can they fight this hard and this well and this effectively? again, it's the massive russian force now amassing in the eastern part of the country. what do they not want from the rest of the world to help them hold up? joining us now is andre's a gordon, who the former ukrainian minister of defense. he's a cofounder and chairman of the security think tank center for his offensive studies. thank you so much for being here, i appreciate time tonight. >> thank you for the invitation. >> let me just ask about these reports that the pentagon briefed the u.s. reporters today saying that the russian military is massing huge numbers of troops and a large amount of equipment for it appears to be killing you assault on the eastern side of the country. does that meteorologist anywhere you believe is happening in your country, and would you make of the scale of that apparent preparation?
>> yes, absolutely. that's what they do, and essentially what happened is, originally they had a plan of quick capture of kyiv, and quick destruction of ukraine. that didn't work. then they started to assault a number of cities. that the newark. then they started to cross ukrainian citizens by destroying the cities and bombing everyone, including suing infrastructure, most of all. that the finest. so, now they are concentrating all they have on one region, because we believe they need toshowto themselves, to their leadership, to putin, that they can achieve something. generally, the russian campaign in ukraine was failing. and right, know they concentrate all their forces and one region, and that is true. according to our statements, our minister of defense and foreign affairs, we expect the operation in the east to be somewhat only one role to meadows. so, yes, indeed.
there are thousands of troops and vehicles and weapons and so on, so this is a very serious job. >> when you say you expect combat along the lines of all we saw in world war ii, you're talking about mass conventional forces facing off on the battlefield. tell us about the balance of power between the types and amount of russian hardware, and forces being moved their, forces would be ukrainian military has at its disposal, and the number of ukrainian forces available to fight that kind of a battle. >> basically, when we compared to world war ii, we need to understand that this war is already the largest conflict in europe since world war ii by the number of the troops, employed by the weapons and casualties, and so on. so talking about a very serious for which is happening right now in your. and, of course, we have personnel that are ready to defend our country. we have no shortage of
volunteers, of reservists, who are ready to join. our ministry, which of course can replenish with our own forces, but something we need this equipment, and weapons. this war has been different because what happened before was russian straight at that crawl different sides, from all different places. they had reasonably limited troops in many locations on ukraine. and, our small group tactic approach was very efficient. and that's where our allies leave the united states who supplied us with javelins and stingers. and the united kingdom give us anti-tank equipment. that is where it's useful, because we could use that. however, we also use a lot of artillery. and we use that basics this fully, and that's why russians went successful in their atoms.
this face most likely is going to be artillery, a long range, major firepower. so this is going to be a war where actually, physically, the two sides went even see each other on the side. so, it is much more dangerous and much more deadly if i may say so. so, yeah, it's a serious challenge. >> in terms of the kinds of the weapons you're describing needed for that kind of the battle, to what extent is this a qualitatively different type of ask? a qualitatively different type of request? do you need, obviously, replacement for that hillary that's been expanded in the fighting thus far? but do you need new kinds of weapons that you haven't had to use before in the kind of small group tactics that you're just describing? >> we need to have armored vehicles, we need to have what is called, multi launch rocket systems and artillery. and we have been using that at
home. and, this as we know, will how to use. but of course, our stocks are not endless, that's why we've been asking for help with our allies, including the united states, of course. it's not sounding totally new, or something around and seen before, but this is something where our partners can definitely help. >> former ukrainian minister of defense, thank you so much for your time. good luck, we appreciate joining us tonight, thank you. >> all right, we've got much more to come tonight. it's good to be back with, you stay with us. h us
your projects done right . with angi, you can connect with and see ratings and reviews. and when you book and pay throug you're covered by our happiness check out angi.com today. angi... and done. ♪ ♪ do your eyes bother you? because after all these emails, my eyes feel like a combo of stressed, dry and sandpaper. strypaper?
why do we all put up with this? when there's biotrue hydration boost eye drops. biotrue uses naturally inspired ingredients like an electrolyte, antioxidant, even your tears' own moisturizer. and no preservatives. these ingredients are true to your eyes' biology. see? bio.true. what does the future of strength look like? it's dynamic weight that adjusts for you in real time for a more efficient workout. and you can only experience it... (sigh) on tonal. ♪♪
at xfinity, we live and work in the same neighborhood as you. on tonal. we're always working to keep you connected to what you love. and now, we're working to bring you the next generation of wifi. it's ultra-fast. faster than a gig. supersonic wifi. only from xfinity. it can power hundreds of devices with three times the bandwidth. so your growing wifi needs will be met. supersonic wifi only from us... xfinity. i know the news about the war

most days feels overwhelming. some days it feels like you may just want to check out of it altogether. we'll tell you we've got a bunch of stuff to get to and tonightshowthat is not about the war at all. but, since i'm just back at this after being away for a little while. there is a couple of things that i just want to paint as a target here a couple of stories that i think is worth pointing out. might be important in the days ahead things that are worth keeping an eye on in terms of new types of potential confrontation. looming. including, potentially american levels of confrontation. related to this war again, like i said, there's two stories the first one is about communication. communication on the ground in ukraine. ukraine's military, also
civilians, all countries around the world including ours. revive heavily on gps. on global positioning systems. every day. whether it's for military stuff like coordinating targeted missiles and drones. or dealing with disaster response. or just allowing everyday people to find the ways around using maps and directions on our smartphones. the world relies on u.s. honed and operated gps technology. i say this is u.s. owned and operated, even though it operates around the world, because the u.s. provides gps technology to most of the world for free. from an american orbiting gps satellites. it's just an unusual thing. it is an american exceptional thing about technology, that everybody all over the world uses. gps technology is largely reliant on u.s. gps satellites. and we, again, let every
country in the world you suffer free. well tonight, nbc's, tom costello has some exclusive reporting. he says dependent on officials are starting to sound the alarm, that in ukraine, russia is messing up that system. russia is jamming the u.s. provided gps signals on the ground in ukraine. it is a four star pentagon official. four star general. who tells nbc news, tonight, quote, ukrainians may not be able to use gps because there are cameras around that prevent them from receiving and using the signal effectively. so, that's one thing that is worth keeping an eye on, particularly because it is not some inquire national resource. or set of norms that the russians are reportedly messing with. this is america attack. this is u.s. technology, that they reportedly blocking. when it comes to u.s. involvement, potential confrontation with the united states, is part of the technological confrontation in
ukraine may ultimately be a source of u.s. confrontation and ukraine. worth watching. relatedly, russia has also reportedly jammed gps systems. not just on the ground in ukraine. but gp assistance used by civilian aircraft that have flown along the russian border with finland. and that brings us to this next story that i think is worth watching. we are now seeing an increasing and increasingly clear indication that the nations of finland, and sweden may try to join nato. and soon. these two countries are formally independent. they are militarily and allied. they have long held off on joining nato. but russia's invasion of ukraine has changed everybody's calculus. and the finish prime minister now says she expects that defense will make a decision before mid summer on whether or not they're going to seek membership in nato. the bbc reports that sweden's ruling social democratic party,
which traditionally oppose nato membership, said it is rethinking that position and light of russia's attack on its own ukraine. now the fact that finland and sweden are making these moves is perhaps on surprising. given the fact that russia has full scale invaded one of the neighbors. that wasn't a nato member. but it is also driving the russian leadership crazy. these are preliminary reports that finland and sweden are considering joining nato. the kremlin is already warning of severe consequences if they do so. and we will tell you, with sweden in finland, both these countries it is a super interesting prospect. it is provocative to russia but it's also fascinating in terms of its potential implications for the north american treaty alliance. finland specifically does share and 800 plus mile border with russia. they are better prepared than most countries neighboring russia in terms of how to deal with their much larger neighbor. then the and russia have a fascinating history, one that has some very perilous playing
out right now in ukraine. that history has led to all sorts of recent war preparation on behalf of defense, that might make russia think twice about how much saber-rattling they're going to do about finland. i mean, finland is basically built a whole other second city underneath their capital just in the event that russia starts a war that targets helsinki. it's incredible stuff, we're gonna mourn that tomorrow night, bringing both these stories. targeting u.s. gps the technology and the upset and russia over finland and sweden potentially joining nato. both of those are worth keeping an eye on. all right, lots more to get to tonight, stay with us. s.
hi, i'm ron reagan, an unabashed atheist. and i'm alarmed, as you may be, by the intrusions of religion into our secular government. that's why i'm asking you to join the freedom from religion foundation, the nation's largest and most effective association of atheists and agnostics working to keep state and church separate, just like our founders intended. please join the freedom from religion foundation today. ron reagan, lifelong atheist, not afraid of burning in hell. before i got aura, twenty-four of my online accounts were hacked! he uses the same password for everything. i didn't want to deal with it. but aura digital security
just dealt with it. what were we worried about again? shopping on public wifi is sketchy. but with aura digital security, my devices are protected in like 3 minutes. it's time to protect your life online with aura's all-in-one digital security. try for free today at aura.com what was that password anyway? ew. inner voice (furniture maker): i'm rubbing the arms of my chair... ...admiring the craft and detail i've put into it. that way i try to convince myself that i'm in control of the business
side of my business. intuit quickbooks makes it easy for you to get a complete view of your business. so you can sit back and... ...relax. and it's easier than ever to get your projects done right. with angi, you can connect with and see ratings and reviews. and when you book and pay throug you're covered by our happiness check out angi.com today. angi... and done. i recommend nature made vitamins, because i trust their quality. they were the first to be verified by usp, an independent organization that sets strict quality and purity standards. nature made. the #1 pharmacist recommended vitamin and supplement brand. with his citi custom cash℠ card, dan earns cash back that automatically adjusts to where his spending is trending. just ask stepping outside his comfort zone dan... okay, i don't- i don't know where the hole for this is. ...or fourth time streaming that period drama dan... you just made me miss her best line, so now i'm going to have to start it again ...even insisted he didn't need directions dan. okay, i'm not lost. i'm exploring. that said, do you know where i am?
earn 5% cash back in your top eligible spend category, up to $500 spent each billing cycle. with the citi custom cash℠ card. (music throughout) large out-of-state corporations have set their sights on california. they've written a ballot proposal to allow online sports betting. they tell us it will fund programs for the homeless, but read the fine print. 90% of the profits go to out-of-state corporations, leaving almost nothing for the homeless. no real jobs are created here. but the promise between our state and our sovereign tribes would be broken forever. these out-of-state corporations don't care about california. but we do. stand with us. (music throughout) i bet you remember this photo,
this crazy photo. remember this? this photo was taken on donald trump's very first foreign trip of his presidency. his first foreign trip was to saudi arabia. that's the king of saudi arabia in the middle there, again yellow hook surprised. again, this was trump's very first foreign visit as president. no other macon president made saudi arabia their first foreign trip. but trump did. and that set the tone for a lot of really unusual favors and special treatment for saudi arabia during trump's one beleaguered term in office. trump's son-in-law and senior adviser jared kushner was in the home of most of those
decisions. most of that personal treatment. mr. kushner made at least pictures to saudi arabia just during trump's first year in office. is we don't know about all of this. and they flew their secretly. we don't know about until after he was, back long after was over. that was the trip that included several nights where generation and the crown prince of saudi arabia, mohammed bin solemn, was by mbs. jaden mbs reportedly stayed up to four in the morning swapping stories and planning strategy. shortly after jared kushner got back from that trip, the saudi crown prince, mbs, rounded up literally hundreds of members of the royal family and other rich saudis and basically jailed them, including torturing some of them. and the ritz-carlton hotel and riyadh until lots of them were forced to give up billions of dollars and any claims the power they might have. and mbs didn't just have tacit
support from the trump white house for that bizarre crackdown, president trump explicitly tweeted his approval of it. trump also, incredibly supported saudi arabia's weird economic blockade of their neighbor qatar. even though qatar is a staunch u.s. ally and the host a gigantic u.s. military base that houses 10,000 american troops. saudi arabia launched this big blockade of qatar, and trump said i'm on the soggy side. trump even bent over backwards to prevent saudi arabia's crown prince after the murder and dismemberment of washington post journalist khashoggi. an operation the u.s. intelligence concluded was personally approved by mbs himself. trump later told journalist bob woodward about mbs quote, i saved his butt. i was able to get congress to leave him alone, i was able to get them to stop. why? why did you do that? i was so strange and so
blatant. why is the united states government doing this? why is our government going out of their way, not just excuse and paper over, but really prop of this guy? how does this work? while the trump administration was giving the saudi crown prince everything you wanted and more, trump's treasury secretary, the guy in charge of the money for the trump administration, stephen mnuchin, kept making ever more frequent trips to go see mbs. even after the jamal khashoggi murder. in fact, in the very last days of the trump administration, not she took one last taxpayer funded overseas junk it to go visit saudi arabia. he had to cut that trip short because of the attack on the u.s. capitol on january 6th. but, not too short, even after that he started a couple more days because you wanted to squeeze and one last meeting. with mbs. well now we know just how well all the hard work rate off. the new york times is reporting now that just six months after trump left office, saturday big
gave stephen mnuchin a billion dollars. saudi arabia put a billion dollars into a brand-new investment fund created by mr. munition. that came out of a saudi fund control by mbs. the services rendered, right? a billion dollars for a job well done when you are a public official serving in the trump administration. but here's the thing, steven mnuchin, the money got from trump's cabinet, yes you got a billion dollars from saudi six months after leaving office. but we now know that at about the same time, the saudis gave two billion dollars to jarred. to trump's son-in-law and white house senior adviser jared kushner. going through this new reporting from the new york times, mbs gave this two billion dollar investment to jared kushner's new investment venture, despite all the advisers for the saudi sovereign wealth fund advising against giving jerry the money.
the saudi advisers who oversee the fund looked at jarred's proposal, and according to internal documents obtained by the new york times, the response was basically, why would we invest in this? jared kushner has no experience in this kind of investing, none. also there are no other investors in this thing out all besides us. and, our due diligence on their operations, quote, shows that they are unsatisfactory in all aspects. in all aspects. that said, mbs staffers at the saudi fund told these advisers, don't worry we've told them that after the first $500 million, they really have to hire some people who know they're doing before they get the other billion and a half. you know, after that, fingers crossed they will figure out how to manage the other billion dollars were giving them, but we will condition the first 500 million on them actually
setting up a company that hire some people who noted how to do with jarred as asking us for this money for. i mean, at least with stephen mnuchin, he was technically an investor. he had been a treasury secretary. he had a money shaped hole in which you can insert a billion dollars, right? he was like a money guy. but jared kushner, he ran his dad's real estate firm for a while. when i got into money trouble. with mnuchin, the deal still stinks to high heaven, but on paper he at least make sense for the saudi government to park some money, maybe? the saudi government, though, then gave jet christina twice as much money on more favorable terms in hopes that he will manage their investment. why was jarred worth twice as much as the billion dollars they gave mnuchin? well, presumably in this case,
it's not just services rendered, but services to be rendered. there's always the prospect that donald trump might be president again, who knows if trump would pick the same cabinet secretaries again. who knows of stephen mnuchin nation will get the job back again, but he will presume we have the same son-in-law. so maybe it's services for rendered, and services to come. when one of the skeptical side advisers asked white beginning to at least cut back the amount they were giving jarred, and guesses staff replied that the whole point was to, quote, form a strategic limitation ship with this new fund. and is founded yet kushner. and cutting back the two billion dollar state they were giving him could screw that up. the saudi government, under mbs, giving jared kushner two billion dollars really does look like not just payments for services rendered, but also a down payment for services expected. if you had to explain corruption, if you have to explain being compromised by a foreign power to like a seven
year old. this will be a good coating book to start with. what are we as a country supposed to do about a situation like this? joining us now is congressman jamie raskin. he sits on the oversight and the judiciary committee, and then investigation, congressman raskin, it is really good to see you. thanks very much for being here. >> i'm delighted to be with yourachelmeadow, i will come back to theshow. >> i know you can make the see warm for me. i'm floored, i should be ford by the new york times reporting because it feels like a textbook example right now who was compromised by foreign power, and it seems like about two u.s. officials. is there more complex way to see it, or are there nuances that aren't immediately visible to us reading this reporting. >> it was a moneymaking operation from the beginning. i do fall the democrats for not
aggressively pushing to foreign governments that donald trump was breaking in from saudi arabia and from the united emirates and from indonesian governments all over the world. and it was a moneymaking operation from our own governments. department author department, agency after agency spent their money at the trump hotels and the golf course this, and so on. and so, of course, they're back in business. both for the pure capitalist motive there, but also in order to put the money together to get back into power. and, every club to crowd autocrat dictator, bully and discussed on earth is now rallying behind donald trump. and they want to restore, and they believe they will mean the end to democracy in america and an end to democratic government in america being on the other side of human rights and democratic countries around the world.
n rightsis the law silent on the ability of former public officials, to potentially future public officials. to take money like this from a foreign entity that they served, in this case or fake quite favorably while in public office? it is something that we expect people to not to because of shame? is there legal constraints on taking this kind of money from a foreign entity? >> while, i am not that familiar with exactly where the money is going and what kind of accounts it's being deposited. if it is all under the banner of business deals or arrangements there is little that can be done except under certain corruption statutes if they think they are getting directly back from the government right now. so it is a tough situation but i wouldn't say there is nothing available, but we'd have to really put it under a microscope to figure out what is going on. and my interpretation, just
from looking at the story today, was exactly yours. this is a down payment on corrupt relationships in the future. it is an investment in the restoration of the trump paparazzi, rather than a payoff for services rendered. >> i wondered looking at this, and thinking about previous corruption scandals and sort of foreign compromise scandals in the u.s. government, thinking of way back to world war ii and how we got the foreign agent registration act for example. it was in response to the fact that at that point, the nazi government, was appeasing its access to u.s. taxpayer funds. to try to propaganda to americans in this country and the congress with that, past fara. it passed the foreign agents registration act, in 1938, to try to head off that sort of thing. i wonder of entity like the oversight committee on which use it might look at this, my look at this is an oversight matter, specifically with an
eye towards creating new federal legislation that would ban something like this for for officials in the future? >> yes indeed. i have a legislation called the, get foreign money out act, with several dozen cosponsors already. which really is an attempt to address the gaping loophole that was opened up by the citizens united decision. president bomb at the time, called it out. he said, if i were saying is that corporations can spend to the heavens in order to advance their agenda, a corporation doesn't really have a citizenship or nationality the way a person does. because you can put foreign money into a domestic corporation and the get foreign money out act, is an attempt to address at least part of the problem revealed by what is happening here. which is the infusion of foreign government money, or foreign corporate money, into domestic corporations and then
channeling that money directly into our politics. we've seen the way in which putin and his autocratic army have attempted to inject ideological, racial, ethnic, religious poison into the lifeblood of american politics. through social media. back since thousand 16. that is where the cambridge analytics was all about. it doesn't take much to alter the chemistry of a nations politics this way. this is one of the bills that we are looking at. in addition to others that deal with the general problem that you are raising. about foreign governments that make a long term investment in a potential president. >> yeah, and multibillion our investment. in this case and son-in-law. congressman jamie raskin, sir, it is great to see you. thank you so much of your time tonight. >> rick seerachel>> are a, we got much more news ahead, stay with us.
, stay with us. ♪ we could walk forever ♪ ( ♪♪ ) ♪ walking on ♪ ♪ walking on the moon ♪ ♪ some ♪ ♪ may say ♪ ♪ i'm wishing my days away ♪ ♪ no way ♪ ♪ walking on the moon ♪


you need an ecolab scientific clean here.
and here. which is why the scientific expertise that helps operating rooms stay clean, now helps the places you go too. look for the ecolab science certified seal. you need an ecolab scientific clean here. and here. which is why the scientific expertise that helps operating rooms stay clean, now helps the places you go too. look for the ecolab science certified seal. today, house speaker nancy pelosi announced that she is testing negative for covid-19. that is a big deal because just four days ago she got a positive test result and start isolating. nancy pelosi is one of dozens of big names in washington d.c. to come down with covid. in the past week. it has been a remarkable remarkable list. many of those people attended the gridiron dinner.
which is a spiky event in washington, about a week ago. so far at least 80 people who attended that event have tested positive. that is 12% of the attendees. but here's the good news, nobody appears to be in the hospital. most people have tested positive so far have reported symptoms, yes, but not scary symptoms. not have to go to the hospital symptoms. well, it was a requirement of that dinner, that you had to be fully vaccinated in order to attend. if -- still are looking for proof that vaccines work. here you go. here is a ton of very high-profile positive cases with relatively mild symptoms, no severe illness, and none of them in the hospital. thank you vaccines. vaccines are centerpiece of the covid preparedness plan. the biden administration plan announced last month. the administration is trying to maintain our countries access to vaccines and boosters and treatments and tests and mask. last week, senator chuck
schumer, democratic leader and senator mitt romney of the republican announced a bipartisan plan to spend ten billion dollars which will be fully covered by unspent money from the american rescue plan. but then the senate left for easter break this weekend without voting on it. after republicans try to put up a poison pill amendment into it to try and screw it up. the senate left. congress is going to be gone to april 19th. in the meantime, our ability to keep giving americans tests and treatments and lifesaving vaccines is now kind of drifting into unfunded territory. the federal government says it does not have enough funds to buy more tests and vaccines once our current supplies run out. thanks to congress bailing and going home for easter. time's ticking. ndpaper. strypaper? why do we all put up with this? when there's biotrue hydration boost eye drops. biotrue uses naturally inspired ingredients
like an electrolyte, antioxidant, even your tears' own moisturizer. and no preservatives. these ingredients are true to your eyes' biology. see? bio.true. hi, my name is cherrie. i'm 76 and i live on the oregon coast. see? my husband, sam, we've been married 53 years. we love to walk on the beach. i have two daughters and then two granddaughters. i noticed that memories were not there like they were when i was much younger. since taking prevagen, my memory has gotten better and it's like the puzzle pieces have all been [click] put together. prevagen. healthier brain. better life.
♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ my a1c stayed here, ♪♪ it needed to be here. ruby's a1c is down with rybelsus®. my a1c wasn't at goal, now i'm down with rybelsus®. mom's a1c is down with rybelsus®. (♪ ♪) in a clinical study, once-daily rybelsus®
significantly lowered a1c better than a leading branded pill. rybelsus® isn't for people with type 1 diabetes. don't take rybelsus® if you or your family ever had medullary thyroid cancer, or have multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 2, or if allergic to it. stop rybelsus® and get medical help right away if you get a lump or swelling in your neck, severe stomach pain, or an allergic reaction. serious side effects may include pancreatitis. tell your provider about vision problems or changes. taking rybelsus® with a sulfonylurea or insulin increases low blood sugar risk. side effects like nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea may lead to dehydration, which may worsen kidney problems. need to get your a1c down? (♪ ♪) ask your healthcare provider about rybelsus® today. if you're a small business, there are lots of choices when it comes to your internet and technology needs. but when you choose comcast business internet, you choose the largest, fastest reliable network. you choose advanced security. and you choose fiber solutions with speeds up to 10 gigs to the most small businesses.
make your business future ready with the network from the most innovative company. get internet and voice for $49.99 a month with a 2-year price guarantee. and ask how to get up to a $650 prepaid card thanks for being here for the with a qualifying bundle.
show tonight, it really is great to be back. i missed you. i'll see you tomorrow night, samantha power is going to be here as my guest. a lovely want to be here for that. but now it is time for the last word with lawrence o'donnell, good evening lawrence. >> good evening lateshow, i missed you to. and, look i got all dressed up for your return tonight. wearing exactly where the other night, but it's just for you tonight, just for you. >> it's got a little extra special sparkle in my eyes. >> good, as we get dressed up, i hope you're ready to go with me to washington's next big superspreader at the white house corresponden