>> doctor colleen mcnicholas, they are in st. louis, thank you so much for taking little time away from your very important work to talk to us. >> thanks, chris. >> that's all in on this monday night, therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. >> good evening, chris. chris, i have to ask you, are you going to be there tomorrow night when we do our prime time we got off to moore's journey was expiring? >> i am going to be there. i was in los angeles for the last one, but i will absolutely be here sitting at the table one seat away from you. >> i almost went to los angeles and bodily grab two and returned you to new york. >> you texted me, turn the plane around. i was not, i'm not flying. >> it's not really that kind of plane. but -- you are not allowed to leave the state tomorrow. we're gonna have a lot of important work to do. >> i will definitely be there. >> all right, i'll see you there, my friend. and thanks for you for joining us. happy to have you here. one quick personal news, sort
of personnel news dimension right off the top, it's good news. ownership say congratulations to alex wagner. who is going to take over the slot that is now msnbc prime. this is just announced today by msnbc. it is great news. in terms of me, nothing about what i'm doing is changing. i am gonna be doing monday nights, from here on out, plus, i will be here for big news events, like i have been, things like a genuine 60 rings, and the big supreme court decision on friday on roe v. wade. nothing that i am doing is changing at all, but it is great news that starting late this summer, starting mid august, it's gonna be alex wagner in the chair here tuesday through friday, at 9:00 eastern. so, congratulations to alex. everybody here thinks this is great news, myself included. again, you're still stuck with me for all the same things that have been stuck with me on -- in recent weeks and months, that won't change.
but alex is taking over that msnbc prime spot. great news. great to know that it's her, so, just want to mention that right off the bat. but take, speaking of the january 6th hearings, i need to tell you i was wrong. we all were wrong. these things changed, to make a strong, after the fact. you will remember that we have the two blockbuster hearings for the january six investigation last week. the first one was the state officials from georgia and from arizona, the election worker from georgia, all testified about the threats and intimidation that trump directed at people and individual states, to try to force them to falsify election results in those states, so he could stay in power. that was the first hearing last week. then, the second hearing last week was a department of justice officials who testified about trump trying to use the justice department to overthrow the government. in order to effectuate the same outcome. so, we have those two, really big, really dramatic, really
just compelling hearings last week. and then, after those two hearings last week, i said, we said, we all said, that that will be it for a while. that the january 6th investigation was not going to convene any further hearings until at least, mid july. it turns out, that was wrong. today, we got a legit surprise announcement from the january 6th investigation. they are convening a surprise hearing on short notice, tomorrow, for all the other hearings they have held thus far, we've had a weeks notice, if not more. this one, we got less than 24 hours notice. and we really don't know why. we don't know the subject of this hearing, they suddenly call for tomorrow. we do not know who the witness is going to be, or the witnesses are going to be. most intriguingly, we don't know what it is about the evidence and the witness testimony that are gonna be presented tomorrow. that requires such urgency. i mean, it was only a few days ago that the chairman of the investigation, congressman benny thompson, told reporters,
you know, no, no, no, i have no more hearings for at least a few weeks, basically easy, nothing else gonna happen until june. that was just a few days ago. since then, something happened that made it so this new hearing had to happen immediately, tomorrow. so, we're gonna get some expert help on that in just a moment, in terms of whether that urgency is an apparent rush on the timing. it might have something to do with, i don't know -- sequencing the witnesses and some particular way. i think people have been coordinating their stories. i think there's something potentially going on terms of preserving evidence, stopping people from tampering with, or destroying evidence. i feel like we need expert advice on this, in part because we also know that this january six investigation in congress is happening in parallel with what appears to now be a very active federal criminal investigation that at least is touching a lot of people who are involved in trump's block.
those two innings last week that i just described, those were tuesday and thursday. you might remember on the day between those two hearings, on wednesday last week, it started raining federal search warrants and subpoenas. first, we learned that a whole bunch of republicans, and a whole bunch of different states, all involved in the forged electors, the fake electors part of the plot, first, we learned that a whole bunch of them got subpoenas on wednesday from federal agents. this, again, is the part of the plot where there were states that biden won, which means those states were gonna cast their votes for biden in the electoral college. but the trump campaign, nevertheless, had republicans in those states create forged, fake slates of trump votes for the electoral college, which they then sent in from those states, as if they were the real votes. so, wednesday last week, trump campaign people, some of the victories themselves, people involved in setting up the fake elector slates, they all got subpoenas on wednesday. and after that, we learned that
a justice department official, a trump doj lawyer, named jeffrey clark, who was allegedly trying to use the power of the justice department to help trump pull off this scheme, we learned thursday morning last week, that he too had had a visit from federal agents the previous day. except in his case, he didn't get a subpoena the way all the other victims people dead. jeff clark actually had his house searched in a predawn raid. with federal agents executing a search warrant at his home, and taking all his electronic devices. today, we've learned there was yet another one, and it happened, the same day, wednesday last week. what we learned today was that it was also trump lawyer, john eastman, who was an outside lawyer for trump. he's been portrayed by the january 6th investigation as sort of the architect of the scheme that trump was trying to pull off, both in terms of trying to get the states to flip, and pressuring the vice president, and the fake electors. apparently, that same day last week, wednesday, john eastman,
also got a visit from federal agents, they apparently confronted him as he was leaving a restaurant in albuquerque, new mexico. the agents told him they had a search warrant for his phone. they took his iphone off him, bodily. they perched on eastman's account of the matter. they held the phone up to his face to use his face went to unlock it. note to self, never use a face print to lock anything. we have all these very granular details tonight about that search warrant being served on john eastman, and federal agents taking his phone. we have all these details because john eastman filed a lawsuit in federal court, seeking to have the search warrant thrown out, and seeking to have his phone returned to him. and as part of that lawsuit that he filed, he disclosed the search warrant and his own description of what happened, when these agents turned up and said, hand over your phone. so, like i said, we are gonna get some expert help on this, in just a second.
we've got federal agents, executing search warrants, which means a federal judge found probable cause that there's evidence of a crime or crimes, at the location being searched. and in that case, this means in the home of one trump lawyer, jeffrey clark, and on the south of another, john eastman. we've got this torrent new federal grand jury subpoena to people involved in one part of the presidents blocked, this fake electors thing. and, we've got this investigation that's happening in congress, rushing now, not just to speak with a new witness, not just to get a deposition from someone, but rushing for some reason, to get public televised testimony from that person tomorrow. someone that -- for whom they're keeping their identity a secret, apparently, right up until the start of the hearing. and i say they're keeping it secret, and i mean it. there is no such thing as a secret in washington, most of the time. but with this one, there really aren't leaks about it at all. there's a lot of speculation, a lot of trolling going on as to
who might be, but there aren't leaks from the committee. nobody really knows. there isn't any informed speculation as to the witness is going to be. so what's going on here? [laughs] like i said, we will have expert help on that, in just a moment, and you should know in terms of thinking ahead about the news week, that hearing, that surprise hearing the general six committee, it's gonna be held live at 1 pm eastern tomorrow. we will have special coverage of that live as it happens here on msnbc, and then, of course, tomorrow night, i will be here as part of a primetime recap of what happened in the hearing. so whether or not you're able to watch it live, we will recap it for you tomorrow night, in primetime, me, and they cast of thousands. starting at 8 pm eastern, primetime recap tomorrow. so, lots going on. but even outside, even outside that -- that sort of flowing water flow of drama in the news, there's a lot of going on in the news. in general tonight, we've been watching dramatic footage, and sort of scary images tonight
out of rural mending, missouri. that's where there was a big derailment of an amtrak passenger train, the southwest chief, that's a different train that runs between chicago and los angeles. that train apparently hit a dump truck today at an intersection, multiple cars derailed and flipped over. now, at this hour, at least three people are known to have been killed in the crash. two people who are passengers on board the train, one person who was in the gym truck, there is an unknown number of injuries but, there said to be a large number of people who were injured in this crash. southwest chief is a storied american passenger train. it's the kind of trained for which you can buy a sleeper car. some of these trains, they look like double decker cars almost. there's sleeper cars, in which people had sleeping births when the strains went over. just a very scary situation. this is a huge accident, seeing all these cars overturned. it's in a very roll area. it's less than 300 people.
this part of missouri, they're coping with a big problem right now. and again, multiple deaths and a lot of people injured. so we will let you more about that over the course of the night tonight, as we learn more about that wing crash in missouri. we also got a bad news update today in the case of wnba, all star britney griner. as you know, brittani griner was arrested in russia, and february, just before russia and they did ukraine. she was arrested in mid february just days before russia invaded and started that war. and basically, she has been held hostage in russia. they've sonia sotomayor -- they have charged her with very obviously, very exaggerated like a large scale drug trafficking charges. they've been holding her since february today, for the first time, we saw the first photos of her in russian custody. first photos of her since amok
shot was released back in march. today, she was photographed in handcuffs as they brought her in for a court appearance. they are gonna put her on trial, or which accounts for a trial in putin's russia, later this week. a trial that's supposed to start on friday, of course, it's a not will court, it's a putin court. so these images today of britney griner reiner, very worrying in terms of how russia's handling her case. we'll have more coming up on that, a later this hour. we're also gonna be speaking this hour with a doctor, a doctor from the netherlands, who has been leaving the way for years now on a very delicate race, sensitive topic, of how to get women all over the world access to abortion when the place of those women live has made it illegal or impossible to get? and this was an international news story for us, but now, of course, it's our story as well here in america, after the
scotus ruling on friday overturning roe v. wade. as of right now, there are seven different states that say they're actively enforcing a total ban on abortion. but that doesn't fully account for what's going on. it doesn't, for example, account for texas, where the states so-called sugar ban technically isn't legally in effect yet, but nevertheless, the states republican attorney general just put claims on twitter, that all abortions are now illegal in texas. and so, texas clinics have stopped providing abortions now, even though the lawful prohibition in texas isn't actually clear at all. beyond that intimidation effort from the republican state attorney general. the list of states with an active ban on abortion as of right now, also doesn't include, for example, the state of arizona. but because of legal confusion in arizona as well, we are told that eight of the nine clinics that provide abortions in arizona have stopped providing abortions there too. so, it's almost a total ban in arizona that's in effect, even
though legal confusion would suggest that that's not happening here. earlier in the day today, louisiana was one of the states that said they weren't enforcing a total legal ban on abortion. but then, the louisiana ban was blocked by a court issued a temporary restraining order, stopping the state of louisiana from enforcing their ban. same thing just happened in utah tonight. just in the last few hours. utah had said they were totally banning abortion, they were legally enforcing their ban. but now, abortions can resume in utah, just for the next 14 days. so -- it's a mess. and with everything this uncertain, with the abortion providers and doctors, facing threats of ten years in prison, and all these, you know, insanely draconian felony charges, and all these in all these red states, with various types of abortion. everything is uncertain. groups who support abortion rights, are talking about stuff that seemed, you know, like
thought experiments, as recently as, you know, four days ago. stuff that seemed like fantastical sci-fi approaches, to solving the problem of abortion access for american women. they're now talking about getting up and running, things like sending of setting up mobile clinics, just on the other side on the state border. literally getting a drive-through clinic going, and abortion clinic and an rv, or some sort of hand they can use, just over the state line. for pregnancies that are less than ten weeks underway, most abortions can now be done safely by just taking a pill, just by taking abortion inducing medication, effectively. but, republican governors and republican attorneys general, and republican state legislatures are saying they're gonna try to block you from even being able to access that bill in the privacy of your own home. that bill which is an fda approved medication. so, abortion rights advocates are stepping up their efforts to get women access to those
mets, despite what republicans are trying to do, and in republican-controlled states, to block even that. we're gonna have an update tonight on that very real fight, with one of the people who pioneered that approach globally. americans now have a lot to learn from her, in terms of what she's been able to accomplish. it has been, again, and international news story for years. it is now our domestic truth as well. that's ahead this hour. but again, just one of those days in which so much is happening. russia, today, shot missiles into a crowded civilian target today in ukraine. russia shock misses today into a shopping center, with thousands of people in sides of it. this, of course, as russia says they're only shooting at military targets. oh, yeah, literally, this was a male. president biden was at the g7 today, where g7 leaders talked about artificially forcing down the price of russian oil, so putin can't use it to keep funding his war, let alone funding his whole sclerotic economy. meanwhile, the former president, president trump, today, he saw
shares in his new media company, swirled in the toilet. when the company had to announce in a regulatory filing that its entire board of directors just got served with federal grand jury subpoenas from federal prosecutors and the southern district of new york. it had previously been known that trump's new media business venture was being investigated by the fcc, the security commission, and by and firm called finra, which is a financial industry watchdog. but now, it's federal prosecutors as well. so, maybe that's a criminal investigation now. i mean, if you're trying to keep up, i think this is everything, but maybe there is more. just off the top of my head, the former president is facing state criminal investigators in georgia. and investigators there related to his efforts to overthrow the government and stay in power. also, a state civil investigation in new york, related to alleged fraud in his family business. his family business has already been criminally indicted as well in new york.
his annual media business may also now be under federal criminal investigation, these brand-new subpoenas that just went out. one of his loyalists lawyers that the justice department will definitely help with this government block, he just had a search warrant executed at his home. one of his outside lawyers, also allegedly helped to overthrow the government block, just had a search warrant executed for his phone. i mean -- this is fine, right? this is normal. there is eight states having primaries and runoff elections tomorrow. and it is amazing that a very basic level, people assert concerning themselves with the potency of endorsing him in some of those races, from that guy who just described. him i some of those , and he's the most important figure in public party politics, still, really? it's amazing, but let's talk about the situation tomorrow, a surprise witness or witnesses who apparently were not gonna
know the identity of until this last-minute surprise january six hearing kicks off at 1 pm. something urge about the evidence the investigators have obtained, or witness testimony they're about toshowus tomorrow, that require them to up and end their schedule -- on zero notice. what should we know about that, what should we know about how investigators, thinking about things like this, what is the timing tell us is the rush here likely to be about preserving evidence, making sure one piece of witness testimony comes out before another. the department of justice appears to have coordinated a one day surprise snowstorm, of subpoenas and search warrants for people allegedly involved in parts of trump's scheme stay in power. now we've got the surprise public hearing being announce less than a week after the justice department took those dramatic steps last week. are those things connected, what's going on here, what can we discern from what we've been
allowed to see that far. joining us now, is barbara mckay, -- she is now professor the university of michigan law school, barbara, great to see you thank you for taking time to be our. tonight >> thanks for having me,rachel. >> so, let me ask if i'm asking questions that make sense, obviously we don't know what's gonna be happening at this hearing tomorrow. there's a lot we don't know. in particular about the federal grand jury investigation, investigations that seem to be underway, but given what we can see, is the reason to either make an informed bit of speculation or to say that we know how some of these things might interrelate? >> yeah, i don't think we know but i think we can make an educated guess. prosecutors are fond of saying there's no such thing as coincidences. i need to believe that these things are related in some way. you may recall, that the hearing day for doj day, which was held last thursday, was supposed to be on the prior wednesday. that got mysteriously delayed, and the reason for it was that their video guys need to get
their act together, which didn't ring true in light of the heroic job they had done just two days earlier in the bill's case when his wife went into labor, these are pretty professional people. and so, that delay struck me as a bit odd, and we find out that last wednesday was this day when there was a barrage of search warrants, grand jury subpoenas going out, and was only the next day the justice department day happened before the january six hearing. it does seem like there is a coordination, now that we've got this hurry up hearing tomorrow, all of a sudden, it's suggest that they're trying to beat something. what that is, i don't know, whether they're concerned about a leak or that this person might get cold feet, maybe that's what it. is but it does seem that the doj investigation, and the committees investigation have now become inter related. >> in terms of that rush, i know that a federal criminal trial environment for example, a district court trial in a federal section, these things need to be worked out through the judge, everybody needs to
be noticed, the idea of a surprise witness, like you get on tv, doesn't really function in that same way in a federal criminal trial environment. obviously, the general six committee and congress don't need to coordinate this with anybody other than betty thompson's office. they don't need to get a judge to sign off on these things. when you do sort of change the timing up, when you do have to rush something, is it possible, or should we be thinking about things like security concerns, should we be thinking about other ways in which witnesses might be potentially safer or better protected in terms of the value of their testimony, by moving them up and making them a surprise? >> i think so. i don't know that its security in the sense that we're worried about donald trump and his minions attacking this person. or it's simply security from the same kinds of people who answer the calls to storm the capitol on january six. witness security is certainly one, but witness integrity that your may be concerned about
someone getting to him or her, about trying to tamper with the witness, or even intimidate the witness. that is a possibility. this communities also seen very close hold on, worried about leaks, not wanting for example to share the transcripts with the justice department, until they're down with them, that they want to maximize the impact of a disclosure. perhaps they worry about someone stealing their thunder if too much time passes before this witness testifies publicly. >> barbara, let me ask you about one other aspect of this, and this may just be, it seems like in one sense like a picking point, but maybe it's important tons of us understanding the scale what's happening and, peoples potential legal generally. and d.c. news just learned, that when jeffrey clark trump doesn't department official, when his home was searched in the predawn hours wednesday last week, it was federal agents that executed that search warrant, which was signed off on by a federal
judge. -- that was other types of federal agents. and john eastman's case, which we learn about today, it was agents again not from the fbi but from the office of expecter general at the justice department. that were the agents who executed the search warrant and took his phone. what should we, as a sort of lay observers, understand about that? >> you know, what it could signal is the office of inspector general investigates internal doj crime fraud waste or abuse. so to the extent jeffrey clark is being investigated for abusing his up office, for example, that makes the sense to me that they would go to the office of inspector general. eastman of course was not a doj employee, but to the extent he's being seen as a coconspirator, with someone inside the justice department. that could explain the use of the office of inspector general, or it could be something as simple as, they've got the best lap for exploiting days, and so, the part of the justice department, and so, they will
use. it's important not to read too much into it, but it does maybe suggest that the roads are leading through to jeffrey clark as the centerpiece of this investigation. >> barbara mcquade, u.s. attorney, former u.s. attorney for the eastern district of michigan. barb, always good to have you here. i feel like we're going to know a lot more soon. we will certainly know a lot more this time tomorrow night. thanks for helping us understand as far as we know now. >> you bet, thanks,rachel. >> we got much more ahead for you tonight. stay with us.rachelrachel >> we got much brain, and hair, skin & nails. new one a day multi+. you tonight. for people living with h-i-v, ke more ahead fo stay with us and ask your doctor about biktarvy. biktarvy is a complete, one-pill, once-a-day treatment used for h-i-v in certain adults. it's not a cure, but with one small pill, biktarvy fights h-i-v to help you get to and stay undetectable. that's when the amount of virus is so low it cannot be measured by a lab test.
research shows people who take h-i-v treatment every day and get to and stay undetectable can no longer transmit h-i-v through sex. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects include a buildup of lactic acid and liver problems. do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your doctor about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b, do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your doctor. common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache. if you're living with hiv, keep loving who you are. and ask your doctor if biktarvy is right for you. - [female narrator] five billion people if you're living with hiv, keep loving who you are. lack access to safe surgery. thousands of children are suffering and dying from treatable causes. for 40 years, mercy ships has deployed floating hospitals to provide the free surgeries these children need. join us. together, we can give children the hope and healing they never thought possible.
it's a mission powered by love, made possible by you. give today. new poligrip power hold and seal. clinically proven to give strongest hold, plus seals out 5x more food particles.
fear no food. new poligrip power hold and seal. ♪ got my hair got my head ♪ fear no food. introducing new one a day multi+. a complete multivitamin plus an extra boost of support for your immunity, brain, and hair, skin & nails. new one a day multi+. this is new this is something i

don't think we've seen before. it's from the new york times today quote, within a few days, just the pill, a nonprofit organization that arranges for patients to a bore obtain abortion bills, just the pill plans to deploy in colorado the first of what will become a flea of mobile clinics to park along state borders providing consultations for medication abortions and dispensing bells. called quote, abortion delivered, the clinic on wheels program, will also provide surgical abortions for patients who prefer that, or too far along in pregnancy for a medication abortion. the program designed to reach patients from states like texas, oklahoma, and south dakota, that quickly outlawed abortion after the court decision, as well as other states like utah that are expected to manner sharply restrict abortions soon. so, that's one potential on the ground response to the supreme court decision to overturn roe
v. wade, overturning the right for illegal abortion. as abortion services on wheels, and take them to the border is a states where abortions outlawed. so, american women cannot get a legal abortion in state acts, but if they take a few steps over the border, from state tax into state why, then they can. again, this was sort of a thought experiment kind of idea, a dystopian sci-fi concept in terms of how american women can still be able to retain the right to make decisions about the most intimate decisions in their lives. it's now apparently gonna affect within days, another way for women in states with abortion bans, to access abortion maybe for them to get abortion pills, which again you can use for many abortions in the first ten weeks or so a pregnancy. if you get abortion pills, prescribed by a provider overseas, provider in another
country whose they're far beyond -- the u.s. state law is designed black block that sort of. thing that's an approach pioneered by a doctor named rebecca gun ports, a dutch doctor she spent decades figure out innovative ways to get abortion services to women were country it's where abortions illegal. -- as for example, provided abortions on ships floating in international water. she then created women on web, to male abortion pills to patients all around the globe. in 2018, she saw on to the future and decided that the united states was joining the ranks of country needing her group services. she launched a group called, aid access, specifically to provide medication abortions to patients in the united states in states that have banned telemedicine abortions. physicians overseas do the video consultations, with women in the u.s., and then the pills are often mailed from overseas as well. we have entered a new era in
america, one in which an overseas organization like aid access, will not be the only way to get a telemedicine abortion in states, and maybe the only way period to get an abortion in about half the states in the union. the work that dr. gothenburg has been doing globally, figuring out how to get women abortion services, when their countries have made it illegal, that's now work that i need to be done across borders inside the united states as well. figure out how to get abortion services to women in states where it is illegal. the time has come, what do americans now need to learn, what can americans learn from somebody who has been doing this pioneering work for decades. joining us now is doctor rebecca -- our founder of women on waves, and giving access, doctor, i appreciate you joining us especially given how late it is where you are. it's really kind of you to be here. >> thank you so much,rachel, for finding me, inviting me to theshow.
>> let me ask you first, about the roe v. wade official by the united states supreme court. i think it could not be described as a surprise in this country, even though i think it was still a shock. i know enough about your work to know that you probably thought coming better than maybe some of us here dead. and you are also taking steps even ahead of that ruling to mitigate some of the severe restrictions that states have already put on abortion access, even with the role lost still in place? >> well,, we started getting requests between united states for a few years with the web. and the reason why women's were looking for access was because they could often not afford the abortion services locally. but also privacy reasons for example, people who are living in domestic violence, or they
couldn't try look at the distance is the travel already quite long. so, there was already there already women that weren't able to access abortion in the u.s. before roe v. wade. and it seems really unfortunate, that they are not able -- to the supreme court. and now that roe v. wade has been overturned, of course in europe we really work with trembling to see how so many of the human rights that have -- might not disappear basically. >> you have pioneered from an international perspective, this tactic essentially of getting women access to medication abortion, getting them the pills, in ways that essentially work restrictions at the local or national level, they're designed to prevent that. what should americans now understand about whether or not medication abortion, can offer
american women a way to retain this right once states try to make it go away, we've already seen some republican controlled states say they will essentially block women from getting abortion medication, from getting tell anyway they can, try to block him from being sent in the mail, trying to block them from leaving to go to other states to get them, what do you see about this sort of a height of that legal barrier when it comes to medication abortion specifically? >> we've seen another country, where abortion is illegal, there's no way that those bills can be -- there will be women's organizations, other people that will bring in the medicines, to make sure that women will have it, and be able to use it when they need it. but i think, what's going to be, what will make it much harder for many, and especially the more vulnerable women, for them in my [inaudible] to get pills. what we see, is that won't stop
people from having abortions, these are actually [inaudible] more people were writing about how they were trying to induce their abortion, for example using -- jumping off stairs, are using knitting needles, so there's they will be women that won't be able to access the pills, and might try to ham apartment selves to prevent pregnancy. and of course, the women that are later in pregnancy, the tells can still be used, it's still safe to use them also after 12 weeks. the world health organization is supporting home used to 12 weeks. but afterwards, the reaches now shows that it's also safe to do, people need to be close to emergency care. and one of the concerns that we have, a sometimes doctors support emergency warrants, they don't want to help people when they present with a miscarriage or an abortion,
because they're scared, that that will make them, that will be prosecuted under strict abortion laws. so, for example are in ireland -- and i think one of the things that's very important to teach the doctors that they can help women, when their lives are in danger, and they need medical care. >> that's terrifying. not only because we've seen it happen, as you just described, but the prospect that health care providers will see a woman in extremists, who is naturally miscarried, or taken medication abortion, for some reason she has a complication that could hurt her, killer, and will stand by because they're afraid of themselves being prosecuted. are there any sort of lessons learned that you can convey to us as a country where abortion is newly-illegal in terms of the most effective organizing, the most potent work that people who support abortion
rights can do to try to save women's lives? >> i think at this moment, people in the u.s. can do is they make sure that they have the abortion pills at home, for when they need it, or when a friend needs. everybody should just get the abortion pills as much as they can. so, that it's everywhere and that it makes it easier for women when they need it. >> doctor rebecca -- thank you so much for your time, your insight tonight, i think we're sailing into water uncharted waters for us, you know the much better than we do. thank you for being here with us tonight, i appreciated. >> thank you. >> with more news ahead, stay with us. >> thank you >> thank you >> with more newfor your immuni, brain, and hair, skin & nails. new one a day multi+. with us. trelegy for copd. ♪ you know how i feel ♪
(coughing) ♪ breeze driftin' on by ♪ ♪ you know how i feel ♪ copd may have gotten you here, but you decide what's next. start a new day with trelegy. ♪ ...feelin' good ♪ no once-daily copd medicine has the power to treat copd in as many ways as trelegy. with three medicines in one inhaler, trelegy helps people breathe easier and improves lung function. it also helps prevent future flare-ups. trelegy won't replace a rescue inhaler for sudden breathing problems. tell your doctor if you have a heart condition or high blood pressure before taking it. do not take trelegy more than prescribed. trelegy may increase your risk of thrush, pneumonia, and osteoporosis. call your doctor if worsened breathing, chest pain, mouth or tongue swelling, problems urinating, vision changes, or eye pain occur. take a stand and start a new day with trelegy. ask your doctor about once-daily trelegy. and save at trelegy.com.
hi. we're zerowater. and we believe everyone deserves ask your doctor about once-daily trelegy. the purest tasting water.
that's why we strive for zero. you see, to some it means nothing. but to us, it means everything. here, take a look. this meter showing triple zeros means our five-stage filter did its job, and that virtually all dissolved solids or tds have been removed. and all that's left is the purest tasting water. let's compare. a two-stage brita filter stops here. but our five-stage filter doesn't quit. zerowater. we strive for zero. ♪ got my hair got my head ♪ introducing new one a day multi+.
a complete multivitamin plus an extra boost of support for your immunity, brain, and hair, skin & nails. new one a day multi+. when you need help it's great to be in sync with customer service. a team of reps who can anticipate the next step genesys technology is changing the way customer service teams anticipate what customers need. because happy customers are music to our ears. genesys, we're behind every customer smile. big tobacco's cigarette butts filter practically nothing and are made of microplastic fibers that are toxic and cunning. they may seep into water and food, and air, too. and the smaller microplastics get, the more damage they do. could they end up in you, your bodies, their prey? new studies indicate possible links to mutations in dna.
an evil lie with a future's worth of harm. to the world, now you know. so sound the alarm. >> president trump on behalf of all the maga patriots in america, i want to thank you for the historic victory for life in the supreme court yesterday. >> the historic victory for a white life in the supreme court, that was illinois republican congresswoman, member of congress, mary miller, at a campaign rally the former president trump this weekend. before that saturday rally, congresswoman mary miller was probably best known for telling attendees a previous rally about what she thinks hitler
got right. hitler was right, let me stop you there ma'am. after the stuff hit there was right about, it faded into the background, there she was this weekend calling a supreme decision of roe v. wade a victory for white life. now congresswoman mary miller's office put out a statement that she said it in the moment or speech was a mistake, a miss statement, she meant to say the right to life. but regardless of whether what she said was intentionally set or not, what's she actually said out loud very clearly was at the supreme court ruling was a victory for white life. and then you can see her there clapping along as the crowd gave a hearty cheer for white life. and as the people in the blacks for trump t-shirts behind them kind of didn't know what to do. the reason trump held that rally as we can with congresswoman hitler was right mary wheeler white life, was
because tomorrow she's gonna face off in a primary against one of her fellow or publican members of congress, rodney davis, the redistricting process in their state squeeze those two republicans into one district, they've got a primary tomorrow trump's obviously supporting -- victory for white life lady. race tomorrow, we'll start to see if she gets if we see that she stays-ing -- that'll be one to watch. but their priority racist mauro in eight states altogether, that was an illinois, there's also racing colorado, mississippi, nebraska, new york, oklahoma, south carolina, utah. frankly, a bunch of doozies in a bunch of those states. colorado publicans, tomorrow for example i can be choosing their candidate for the top job overseeing elections across the entire state of colorado. and one of the republican candidates in that secretary of state race, is this woman tina peters. if that knee teeter tina peter
sounds miller it's got tina peters keeps making national news. because she is the county clerk in colorado who's currently under indictment charged with seven felonies and three misdemeanors after she allegedly tampered with official boating equipment. and gave sensitive voting information to election conspiracy theorists that they probably posted it all online, including all the passwords. a colorado judge has already barred tina peters from overseeing the 2022 elections in the county where she's the county clerk. now she's running to oversee elections for the entire state of colorado. dina peters, that said isn't the only that kind of candidate that's on the ballot in colorado tomorrow. one of the republican candidates in the primary race for governor tomorrow as this man, greg lopez, he's running on a platform in colorado that republican vote should count more than democratic votes. seriously? he said that if he's governor,
he will change colorado's election laws, so that votes for rural republican-leaning areas with count more, they'd be worth more than votes from urban democratic-leaning cities. okay. in oklahoma tomorrow, publicans are set to choose their candidate to replace retiring senator james milton in hough, one of the dozens are still republicans running in that race, is another familiar face. his name is scott pruitt, he's the head of the epa under trump, remember him? he's best known for committing start a neck and neck with the trump interior secretary ryan slinky, for the title of who could rack up the most scandals in the shortest tenure on trump's cabinet. scott pruitt was the scandals at the epa was truly draw dropping, the gamut from spending times a taxpayer dollars on private flights, to tactical pants, what tactics do pants use? he allegedly used his office to try to get his wife or own ship filet franchise?
he also had taxpayers pay for a soundproof phone proof that he installed in his epa administrator office, for high security soundproof techs. we [laughs] now wants to be the republican nominee for side in the great state of oklahoma. there's a lot of races to keep an eye on tomorrow, in illinois, oklahoma, illinois in oklahoma but the polls close at 8:00, colorado polls are gonna eat it as a 9 pm eastern. watch this space. h this space
>> tech: need to get your windshield fixed? safelite makes it easy. >> tech vo: you can schedule in just a few clicks. and we'll come to you with a replacement you can trust. >> man: looks great. >> tech: that's service on your time. schedule now. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪
i'm susan and i'm 52 and i live in san francisco, california. i have been a sales and sales management professional my whole career. typical day during a work week is i'm working but first always going for a run or going to the gym. i love reading. i love cooking healthy. it's super important to me. i was noticing that i was just having some memory loss. it was really bothering me. so i tried prevagen and it started to work for me. i wish i had taken prevagen five or ten years ago. prevagen. healthier brain. better life.
(♪ ♪) how do we demonstrate our unmovable strength? (eagle call) nope. how do weshowthat we'll stand tall through the storms? nah. (thunder) how do we make our clients feel secure and- ugh... not lions. (lion rumbles) we do it with our people. people who've been looking after people for over 170 years. [ kimberly ] before clearchoice, my dental health was so bad i would be in a lot of pain. i was unable to eat. it was very hard. kimberly came to clearchoice with a bunch of missing teeth, struggling with pain, with dental disease. clearchoice dental implants solved her dental issues. [ kimberly ] i feel so much better. i feel energized to go outside and play with my daughter. i can ate anything. like, i don't have to worry. clearchoice changed my life.
for people living with h-i-v, keep being you. and ask your doctor about biktarvy. biktarvy is a complete, one-pill, once-a-day treatment used for h-i-v in certain adults. it's not a cure, but with one small pill, biktarvy fights h-i-v to help you get to and stay undetectable. that's when the amount of virus is so low it cannot be measured by a lab test. research shows people who take h-i-v treatment every day and get to and stay undetectable can no longer transmit h-i-v through sex. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects include a buildup of lactic acid and liver problems. do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your doctor about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b, do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your doctor. common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache. if you're living with hiv, keep loving who you are. and ask your doctor if biktarvy is right for you. >> it's been nearly four and a
half months since wnba star, two-time olympic medalist, britney griner, was arrested in russia. she was arrested in moscow airport in february just a week before russia invaded ukraine. but the ridiculous charge for which she was arrested, that russian officials say they found traces of cannabis oil and empty vape cartridges in her luggage. okay. they've laid patently ridiculous charges against her, of large-scale drug trafficking for that. today for the first time since her arrest, we saw her in court, russian authorities are accusing her of smuggling a significant amount of a narcotic substance. we also learned today that are trials gonna begin this week, on friday, she's facing a president sentence of up to ten years, -- where these charges are gonna be heard, fewer than 1% of
defendan i russian criminal cases in this kind of a court are acquitted. it's a chronicle of conviction for told. on friday, and washington the house of representatives passed a bipartisan resolution calling for her release, state department out a statement today saying that the russian federation has wrongfully detained u.s. citizen britney griner, we'll continue to press for her release. and while that's all well and good in washington, this is putin's russia, and putin's russia the reality is that britney griner's basically being held as an american hostage. things are got to get much worse for her. watch this space. h this space and hair, skin & nails. new one a day multi+. as someone living with type 2 diabetes, i want to keep it real and talk about some risks. with type 2 diabetes you have up to 4 times greater risk of stroke, heart attack, or death. even at your a1c goal, you're still at risk
...which if ignored could bring you here... ...may put you in one of those... ...or even worse. too much? that's the point. get real about your risks and do something about it. talk to your health care provider about ways to lower your risk of stroke, heart attack, or death. learn more at getrealaboutdiabetes.com >> tech: when you have auto glass damage, trust safelite. in one easy appointment... ♪ pop rock music ♪ >> tech: ...we can replace your windshield and recalibrate your advanced safety system. >> dad: looks great. thanks. >> tech: stay safe with safelite. schedule now. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ new poligrip power hold and seal. clinically proven to give strongest hold, plus seals out 5x more food particles. fear no food. new poligrip power hold and seal.

we've been streaming all day from every room. fear no food. the power and speed of this super-sonic wifi from xfinity is incredible. mom! mass speeds was my idea, remember?
get minion net, with speeds of up to one minion bite per hour. [ low screaming ] but that was an epic fail. with xfi we can stream, share, swipe, like... impress your mom with super-sonic wifi. it's unbeatable internet for a more unbeatable gru. >> quick reminder before we go, i mean, you.
as we've been reporting today, the january 6th investigation i did a surprise unexpected here into the calendar for tomorrow. they said they're going to present a recently obtained evidence, and received witness testimony. no, we don't have an obvious idea with this is about. but we are entry. that surprised hearing is scheduled for 1 pm eastern, tomorrow, msnbc's gonna have live coverage starting at noon. and then, tomorrow night, 8:00 eastern, i will help host a primetime recap of that hearing, alongside a whole boatload of my beloved colleagues. anyway, i don't know what's going to happen. i'm not going to sleep, which means you should get a good night sleep tonight, if only to be fully awake for me, really, really botching everything tomorrow on live tv. i'll see you then. now, it's time for the last