>> welcome backrachel. how do you like them apples? >> were you expecting the drumroll to be a little bit longer. an extra 12 seconds. extra 12 seconds. because rachele is back, i missed her and i was sort of rushing a little bit >> t it isha good to be back. i'mbe super rusty so i'm hoping that people will stick around tonight if only to see me screw up. >> i doubt that will happen. two things, ali did a decent job in your absence, a totally incredible job and we missed you a tonin and great to see your fe on the screen here so welcome back, e friend. >> thanks, friend. much appreciated.   and thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. it is nice to be back. is really, really, really nice to be back. if this face does not seem familiar, if you are now quite used to seeing somebody else at this hour, hello, it's nice to meet you, i'mrachel.
i have been away from theshowfor a few weeks. i took a hiatus to give myself a little recess and work on some other msnbc projects that i've got cooking. i got to say you the hiatus has been fantastic. i'm really grateful for it. i know it's hard to get in this business. i'm grateful to msnbc and the president of msnbc for letting me do this. and grateful for the staff for doing such great work while i was gone and grateful beyond words for ali velshi in particular and other colleagues who filled in while i was away. if you can't tell from the way the rest of us talk about him, you should know that ali velshi is really a prince among men, he has been in ukraine and in bordering countries for five straight weeks. covering the war.
hosting thisshow. hosting his ownshow. he has beenin doing incredible work. literally around the clock. all the while just being a great and generous and upstanding person and a great co worker to everyoneat who works with him a you should be so lucky to ever have a co-worker as great as ali velshi, we are incredibly lucky to have him here at msnbc and i'm grateful that he honed things so ably while i was gone and i sort of feel like i have big shoes to fill coming back given what a good job he has been doing. i am back. i said when i left before that i might eventually be taking another hiatus later on this year, and that things were fluid, we would be taking it one step at a time, that is also true-ish. but one of the things i realized while i was on hiatus, working on these other projects these past few weeks, one of the things i realized, to my surprise, is that i actually don't really need another hiatus,ee this one was great, b
i think i only needed the one. i do still have all of these other iron notice fire, all of these other things i'm working on that i want to bring in fruition. none of them are fast, i don't think i need another big stretch ofth time off. but here's the plan. i'm back. i will be here all this month, monday through thursday night, and now for big news events for things like the lead-up to the election i will be here more than that, but that is the general plan. i willge be here this month, monday through thursday night andmo then starting next month, starting in may, i'm going to be here weekly, i'm going to be here on monday nights, t again,o give myself just more time to work on some of this other stuff that i've got cooking for msnbc and nbc. so monday through thursday nights this month starting next month, i will be, i will be here weekly. and again, you know, this might
change. we will see how things go. but that is the plan as of now. so now you know. and we will never speak of it again. none of that. let's start theshow. we got to, a lot to get to tonight. as i mentioned in addition to hosting duties on thisshowali velshi has been hosting his ownshowon the weekends here as well, hosting from ukraine, and from borderingfr countries wher he has been these last few weeks and i mention this because yesterday, if you caught ali's msnbcshow, you might have seen him interviewing this gentleman, on the right side of your screen, if you're a long time viewer of thisshow, that guest might look familiar to you. his name is vladimir kara-murza. and mr. kara-murza apparently honked the dreams of vladimir putin. the first major opposition figure to emerge as a potential
rival to vladimir putin who was an expenditure billionaire who won the one russian oil company who knew what it was doing, mikhail khodorovsky, if you want to read the back story, i think it isba an amazing, it is in a book i wrote, and he became the richest businessman in russia and challenged putin. he made this public challenge that russia needs toli be a rea democracy and the government needs to stop stealing everything and stopne being so corrupt. that was such a threat to vladimir putin that putin had him arrested on made-up charges, seized his company and took it for himself and putin had the guy locked up in prison for a decade. after he was done in prison for a decade, he fled russia. and founded a pro-democracy
group, called open russia and advocates for democracy in russia and advocates against corruption in russia. that of course is very threatening to vladimir putin.   after khodorovsky threatened him, putin was threatened by the organization founded, and pute-the organization banned. he had it declared illegal. but until open russia was banned,si the guy running it wa vladimir kara-murza and he keeps popping up in places like this, the next credible rival to vladimir putin was this man, a charismatic opposition politicianch named boris nemtso well spoken, a physicist by training, 6'5", a lost different prominent offices in russia, deputy prime minister, and he emerged ultimately at this outspoken crusader against ruption in the russian government. and so naturally just like
khordorkovsky before him, boris nemtsov emerged as a threat to putin, another credible challenger to putin so he had to go, too. with him, they didn't go through the trouble that they went through with the oil guy. they didn't go through the trouble of arresting him and jailing him and stealing his company, and exiling him. for boris nemtsov, they went a simpler route, they just killed him, four bullets in the back as hein walked alongside the stree outside the kremlin in 2015. but here, too again, we find our friend vladimir kara-murza, there is a foundation for boris, that supports journalist and freedom of the craft and they give the prize for courage and upholding democratic values. vladimir kara-murza runs that foundation, and he ran the foundation, hefo runs the foundation, in the name of boris
nemstov, the pattern is clear, part of the way that vladimir putin stays in power, is he kills the opposition fingers and they have alexey navalny in jail now after nearly killing him for poison. and boris nemstov is gunned down in the street. the opposition keeps trying, it keeps going. vladimir kara-murza linked to the opposition figures, a very highop profile opposition figur in his own right, carrying on the work of the killed and imprisoned leaders to keep the opposition alive in russia. literally alive. and politically alive. and he has paid the price for it, too. in 2015, vladimir kara-murza was poisoned. him, too. multiple organ failure. he had to learn to walk again. it took him a year and a half to recover when he was poisoned in
2015. but he lived two. years later, he was traveling in russia, inside russia, promoting a documentary about the life and the assassination of boris nemstov, shou some how vladimir kara-murza was poisoned again, twice in two years.tw in and out of a coma. multiple organ failure again. his wife somehow got him out of russia and into the united states for limb to try to recover here. doctors here told her that he had a 5% chance of survival. he survived. and in 2017, as he was still recoveringti from that second assassination attempt, in fact he was right here onon this sho. >> we saw the offices of alexey navalny's organization get ramsacked and have their computers and paperwork and all their staff getting arrested. open russia getting banned this week. the raid on the offices there this week. how do you maintain any sort of
momentum or any sort of organizing structure against that? >> well, the other side, if you just look at it form lick the other side of course, to have all of the so-called propaganda machine, they have the full power of state on their side. but what we have is something much more important. and thatg is the truth. >> we have something much more important. the truth. vladimirth kara-murza, russian opposition leader. as vladimir putin's war against ukraine grinds on now, we're in what day 44, day 45, tonight, we feel the first unconfirmed reports that russian forces may have used a chemical weapon in ukraine. as the number of russians arrested for opposing putin's war dwarfs the number of arrests we saw even from the big opposition protests in russia in 2012, andsi 2017, as putin has w
eliminated the last vestiges of the independent press in that country, as he has made it a criminal act to even call the war in ukraine a war, as thousands, tens of thousands of russian citizens have fled their own country, probably permanently, to escape putinro d what he is doing now to russia as he wages this war, this man, vladimir kara-murza tries to keep the opposition to putin alive, or perhaps to die trying. yesterday, he spoke with ali velshi from moscow. today, vladimir kara-murza was arrested,za seized by the russi authorities, it was first reported by russian dissident, later k by the boris nemtstov foundation which mr. kara-murza leads, taken by russian authority, his where-abouts tonight are unknown. when he spoke with ali just
yesterday, i don't want to say he knew it was comingye but he knew he was in russia at this time still speaking his mind. and he was eyes open facing it head-on. >> are you worried about speaking out against the russian government and against this war and invasion from russia? >> the overall price, the overall cost, we also know that there are millions of people in russia who categorically oppose putin, everything he is doing, both in terms of domestic aggression and in terms of external aggression and many peopleex in our country who wan our country to be a normal moral democratic european state and i think it would be very demoralizing for us, who are the public faces of pro-democracy and the opposition would all just leave the country. i don't condemn it, the decision, but if you're asking about me, i am a russian politician, russia is my country, russia is my home, and this issi what i have to do.
>> i'm worried for you, my friend. you have been a source of my information for many, many years,in so i worry on your behalf. >> that was yesterday. ali telling kara-murza how worried he was on his behalf. but again, russian opposition leader, who has twice already survived poisoning assassination attempts, today, he was seized by russian h authorities, arrested, after giving an interview to cnn and after giving that interview to msnbc just yesterday. other oppositionvi activists in russia haveon reportedly gone tonight where the police station where they believe he may have been taken, they are calling for his release, we'll let you know more as we learn more.  rn in ukraine today, the pentagon confirmed the reports that we have been seeing for several days. that russia appears to be amassing both troops and equipment in even ukraine. and it is not a minor shift, according to the pentagon, it's 50, 60,000 russian troops
converging in ukraine's east now. with the aircraft and the equipment, that appears toshowthem preparingeq for a massive w offensive, commercial satellite photography shows an eight mile long russian military convoy in the east. the second largest city, the largest in the east, kharkiv. ukrainian military has thus far been david, fighting off a relentless and brutal goliath. but again, with new and as yet unconfirmed etreports, that rusa may have usedun a chemical weap in the city of mariupol, and with confirmed reports that russia appears to be preparing a whole new massive scale assault on the eastern part of the country, how much proverbial gas does the ukrainian side have left in the tank? how well resourced are they? how much more do they have to give? how much longer can they fight this hard and this well and this effectively?
against the massive russian force? now amassing in the eastern part of the country? what do they now want from the rest of the world too help the hold up? joining us now is andre, a former ukrainian minister of defense, co-founder and chairman of the security think tank center four defensive strategy, thank you so much for being here, i appreciate your time here tetonight, sir. >> thank you for the invitation. thank you. >> let me first just ask about these reports that the pentagon briefed to u.s. reporters today saying that the russian military is amassing huge numbers of troops and a large amount of equipment for what appears to be a renewedeq assault on the eastn side of the country. does that meet your understanding of what you believe is happening in your country, and what do you make of the scale of that apparent preparation? >> yes, absolutely. that's what they do. and essentially what happened. originally they had a plan of
quick capture of kyiv and quick destruction of ukraine. that didn't work. thenth they started to assault number of cities. that didn't work. then they started to go after ukrainian citizens and bombing the city, that didn't frighten us. now they are concentrating all of their effort on one region because they would believe they need toshowtous themselves, t their country, that they have something, andha generally, russian plan in ukraine was failing and right now, they concentrate all of their forces in one region and that is absolutely true. and according to our statements of our own minister of defense and minister of foreign affairs, we expect the operation in the east to be somewhat reminding us of world war ii battles, so yes, indeed, they were talking about tens of thousands of troops, thousands of vehicle, equipment, weapons, and so on, so this is a very serious situation. >> when you say you expect
combat along the lines of what we saw in world war ii, you're talking about plas conventional forces, mass conventional forces facing off onfo the battlefield. tell us about the balance of power between the types and amount of russian hardware, and forces being moved there, versus what the ukrainian military has at its disposal, and the number of ukrainian forces available to fight that kind of a battle. >> well, basically, when we compare to world war ii, we have to understand this war is already the largest conflict in europe since world war ii, by the number of troops employed, by the weapons and casualties and soby on. so we're talking about a very serious war which is happening right now in europe. and of course, we have personnel ready to defend our country, we have no shortage of volunteers who are ready to join. our biggest issue, which of
course, replenish our own forces but something where we need support is equipment. so basically weapons. particularly if this war is goingar to be very different th what it has been so far, because what happens before, is that russians tried to attack from all different side, all different place,al and they had reasonably limited troops in many, many, many locations throughout ukraine. and our small tactic, small group tactic approach was very efficient. and that's where our allies were of course, the united states, first of all, which supplied us with the drones and stingers and the united kingdom and other anti-tanknd equipment. that is where it was useful because we could use that. however, we also use artillery and we used it very successfully and that's how the russians couldn't be successful in their attacks. >> this phase most likely is going to be all long range, all what is called fire power, so this is going to be the war
where actually physical, the two sides may not even see each other in plain sight. so this is much more dangerous. and much more deadly if i may say so. yes, it is a serious challenge. >> in terms of the kinds of weapons you're describing, needed for that kind of a battle, to what extent does this mean that this is a qualitatively different type of act, a qualitatively different type of q you need replacement for the artillery that has already been expended in the fighting thus far but do you need new kinds of weapons that you haven't had to use before, and the kind of small group tack talc ticks that you -- tactics that you were just describing? >> we need to have armored vehicles. we need to have what is called multi-launch rocket systems to handle artillery, and we've been using it at home, and this is we know how to use, but of course, we have our folks, we have been
asking for help, with our allies including the united states ofh course. and it's not something totally new, which we've never seen before, but this is something where our partners can definitely step in. >> former ukrainian minister of defense, thank you so much for your time. >> thank you very much. >> we appreciate you joining us tonight. thank you.   we got much more here to come here tonight. it's good to be back with you. stay with us. e tonight. it's good to be back with you. stay with us


xfinity mobile runs on america's most reliable 5g network, but for up to half the price of verizon, so you have more money for more stuff. this phone? fewer groceries. this phone? more groceries! this phone? fewer concert tickets. this phone? more concert tickets. and not just for my shows. switch to xfinity mobile for half the price of verizon. that's a savings of over $500 a year. switch today. xfinity mobile runs on america's most reliable 5g network, but for up to half the price of verizon,
so you have more money for more stuff. this phone? fewer groceries. this phone? more groceries! this phone? fewer concert tickets. this phone? more concert tickets. and not just for my shows. switch to xfinity mobile for half the price of verizon. that's a savings of over $500 a year. switch today.
in other news about the war, most days are overwhelming and some days it feels like we might want to check out of it all together and a bunch of stuff on tonight'sshowthat is not about the war at all but sometimes, just back at this after being away for a little while, there are a couple of things that i want to paint as a target here, a couple of stories that i think is worth pointing out that might be important in the days ahead and worth keeping an eye on in terms of new types of potential confrontation looming, particularly american levels of confrontation related to this war. like i said, two stories. the first one is about communication. communication on the ground in ukraine. ukraine's military, also its civilians, like all countries around the world including ours they rely heavily on gps, on global positioning systems.
every day. whether it's for military stuff like coordinating targeting missiles and drones or dealing with disaster response or just allowing every day people to find their way around using maps and directions on their smartphones. the world relies on u.s.-owned and operated gps technology. i say it is u.s.-owned and operated even though it operates around the world, because the u.s. provides gps technology to most of the world for free. from american orbiting gps satellites. it's just an unusual thing. it's an american exceptional thing about technology that everybody all over the world uses. gps technology is largely reliant on u.s. gps satellites and we again, let every country in the world use them for free. and tonight tom costello has exclusive reporting and pentagon officials are starting to sound the alarm that in ukraine russia
is messing up that system, russia is jamming the u.s.-provided gps signals on the ground in ukraine a four star general who tells nbc news tonight, quote, ukrainians may not be able to use gps because there are jammers around that prevent them from receiving and using the signal effectively. so that's one thing that is worth keeping an eye on. particularly because again, this is not some, you know, inchoate set of norms but this is american tech, this is u.s. technology that they're reportedly blocking and when it comes to u.s. involvement, potential confrontation with the united states, this part of the technological confrontation in ukraine may ultimately be the source of u.s. confrontation in ukraine. worth watching. relatedly, russia has also reportedly jammed gps systems, not just on the ground in
ukraine but gps systems used by civilian aircraft that have flown along the russian border with finland. and that brings us to this next story that i think is worth watching. we are now seeing increasing and increasingly clear indications that the nations of finland and sweden may try to join nato. and soon. these two countries are formerly independent, they're militarily unaligned. they have long held off on joining nato. but russia's invasion of ukraine has changed everybody's calculus, annual the finnish prime minister now says she expects the fins will make a decision before mid-summer on whether or not they are going to seek membership in nato. the bbc reports that sweden's ruling democratic socialist party are rethinking that position in light of russia's attack on ukraine. now, the fact that finland and sweden are making these moves is
perhaps unsurprising, given the fact that russia has full scale invaded a nato that wasn't a nay, invaded a european member that is not a nato member. and the kremlin is already warning of severe consequences if they do so. we'll tell you, with sweden and finland both of these countries super interesting prospect and it is provocative to russia but also fascinating in terms of the potential implications for the north american treaty alliance, finland specifically though does share an 800-plus mile border with russia, they are better prepared than most countries, in russia, in terms of how to deal with their much larger neighbor. finland and russia have a fascinating history, and one that has some erie parallels for what is playing out right now in ukraine and that history has led to all sorts of recent war preparation on behalf of the fins that might make russia
think twice about how much saber rattling they will do about finland joining nato. finland has basically built a whole other second city underneath their capital, just in the event russia starts a war that targets helsinki, incredible stuff. more on that tomorrow night. but again both of these stories, targeting u.s. gps technology, and the upset in russia over finland and sweden potentially joining nato, both of those are worth keeping an eye on. lots more to gets to tonight. stay with us. ts more to gets tot stay with us




i bet you remember this photo, this crazy photo, remember this? this photo was taken on donald trump's very first foreign trip of his presidency. his first foreign trip was to saudi arabia, and that's the king of saudi arabia in the middle there, the guy who looks surprised. this was trump's very first foreign visit as president and no american president made saudi arabia their first foreign trip but trump did. and that kind of set the tone for a lot of really unusual favors and special treatment for saudi arabia, during trump's one beleaguered term in office. trump's son-in-law and senior adviser jared kushner was at helm of most of those decisions, most of that special treatment and mr. kushner made at least three trips to saudi arabia just during trump's first year in office and i say it was at least three because we don't know about all of his trips.
of those three, one of them, kushner flew their secretly. we didn't learn about it until after he was back. long after it was over. that was the trip that reportedly included several nights where jared kushner and the crown prince of saudi arabia, muhammad bin sal lan, mbs, jared and mbs reportedly stayed up until 4:00 in the morning swapping stories and planning strategy, end quote. . shortly after jared kushner got back from that trip, the saudi crown prince mbs rounded up nearly hundreds of members of the royal family and rich saudis and jailed them and including torturing them in the ritz carl ton hotel and lots of them were forced to give up billions of dollars and any claims to power they might have. an mbs didn't just have tactic support from the white house for that bizarre crackdown, president trump tweeted his approval of it. and trump also incredibly supported saudi arabia's weird economic blockade of their
neighbor qatar, even though qatar is a staunch u.s. ally, and they host a gigantic u.s. military base that houses 10,000 american troops. saudi arabia launched this big blockade of qatar and trump said okay, i'm on the saudi side. really? trump even bent over backwards to prevent saudi arabia's crown prince, after the murder and dismemberment of "washington post" journalism jamal khashoggi, u.s. intelligence concluded was personally approved by mbs, and trump said to bob woodward, i saved his, and i was able to get congress to lev him alone, i was able to get them to stop. why? why did you do that? it was so strange and so blatant. why is the united states government doing this? why is our government going out of their way, not just to excuse and paper over, but to really prop up this guy? how does this work?
while the trump administration was giving the saudi crown prince everything he wanted and more, trump's treasury secretary, the guy in charges of money, for the trump administration, steven mnuchin, he kept making ever more frequent trips to go see mbs even after the jamal khashoggi murder. in the last days of the trump administration, mnuchin took one last taxpayer overseas junket to go visit saudi arabia and had to cut that trip short because of the attack on the u.s. capitol on january 6 but not after that, even after that he stretched it out a couple more days because he wanted to squeeze in one last mesing with mbs. -- meeting with mbs. now we know how well that hard work paid off. "the new york times" is reporting now that just six months after trump left office saudi arabia gave steven mnuchin a billion and put a billion in a brand new investment fund created by mr. mnuchin. that money came out of a saudi
government fund controlled by mbs. i mean services rendered, right? a billion for a job well done, when you were a public official. serving in the trump administration. but here's the thing. steven mnuchin, the money guy from trump's cabinet, he got a billion from the saudis, six months after leaving office, but we now know that at about the same time the saudis gave $2 billion to jared, to trump's son-in-law, and white house senior adviser jared kushner, according to this new reporting from "the new york times," mbs gave $2 billion to jared kushner's new investment venture, despite all of the advisers for the saudi sovereign fund advising against giving jared the money. the saudi advisers who oversee the fund looked at jared's proposal and according to internal documents obtained by the times, their response was basically, why would they invest in this? jared kushner has no experience
in this kind of investing. none. also, there are no other investors in this thing at all. besides us. and our due diligence on their operations, quote, shows that they are unsatisfactory in all aspects. in all aspects. that said, mbs staffers at the saudi fund told these advisers, don't worry, we've told them that after the first $500 million, they really, really have to hire some people who know what they're doing before they get the other billion and a half. you know, after that, you know, fingers crossed, they'll figure out how to manage the other $1.5 billion we'll given them but condition the first $500 million on setting up a company that hires some people who know how to do what jared is asking us for this money for. at leaf the steven mnuchin, he was technically an investor, he
had been a treasury secretary, i mean he had a money-shaped hole in which you could insert a billion, right? he was like a money guy. but jared kushner? he ran his dad's real estate firm for a while when it got into money trouble? i mean with mnuchin, the deal still stinks to high heaven but on paper he kind of makes sense for a place for the saudi government to park some money, maybe? but the saudi government though, then gave jared kushner twice as much as money on more favorable terms on the big hope that jared will eventually hire people to do the actual work of, you know, managing their investment. why was jared worth twice as much as the billion they gave mnuchin? well, presumably in this case it is not just services rendered but services to be rendered. there's always the prospect that donald trump might be president again. who knows if trump would pick the same cabinet secretaries again, who knows if steven mnuchin would get the job back
again, but presumably have the same son-in-law, so maybe it's payment for services rendered and also services to come. one of the skeptical saudi advisers asked why they couldn't cut back the amount they were giving jared, mbs's staff replied that the whole point was to quote form a strategic relationship with the new fund and its founder jared kushner and cutting back the $2 billion stake they were giving him could screw that up. the saudi government, under mbs, giving jared kushner $2 billion, really does look like not just payment for services rendered, but also a down payment for services expected. if you had to explain corruption, if you had to explain being compromised by a foreign power to like a 7-year-old, this would be a good coloring book to start with. what are we as a country supposed to do about a situation like this? joining me now is congressman jamie ras kiln, sitting on the
oversight committee and the january 6th committee, and congressman raskin, it is great to see you. thanks very much for being here. >> i'm delighted to be back with you,rachelmaddow, welcome back to yourshow. >> thank you very much. i shouldn't be floored, i am floored by this "new york times" reporting, because it does feel like a textbook example about somebody being compromised by a foreign power and it also feels like a bribe to u.s. public officials. is there a more complex way to see it? or are there other nuances about that that aren't visible to us reading report. >> it was a money making operation from the beginning. that's the way i see it. and i do fault the democrats for not more aggressively pushing the foreign government emoluments that president trump was from the unite arab emirates
and governments all over the world and a money making operation for our own government, as department after department and agency after agency spent their money at the trump hotels, and the golf course, and so on. and so of course, they're back in business. both for the pure capitalist motive there but also in order to put the money together, to get back into power, and you know, every kleptocrat, bully, despot, dictator on earth is now rallying behind donald trump, and they want to restore him to power, and they believe that it will mean the end to democracy in america, and an end to democratic government in america, being on the side of human rights in am dig countries around the world. -- in democratic countries around the world. >> is the law silent on the ability of public officials and future public officials to take money like this from a foreign
entity that they served, and in this case served quite favorably in public office? is this something we expect people not to do because of shame or legal constraints on taking this kind of money from a foreign entity? >> you know, i'm not that familiar with exactly where the money is going and what kind of accounts it's being deposited in. if it is all under the banner of business deals, or arrangements, there's little that can be done, except, you know, under certain corruption statutes. if they think they're getting something directly back from the government right now. so it's a tough situation. but i wouldn't say there's nothing available but we would have, to you know, really put it under a microscope to figure out what's going on. and my interpretation, just having looked at the stories today, was exactly yours, that this is a down payment on corrupt relationships in the future. it's an investment in the
restoration of the trump-ocracy whether than payment for services rendered. >> and looking at foreign compromise scandals in the u.s. government dating back to world war ii, and you know, how we got the foreign agent registration act, for example, in response to the fact that at that point the nazi government was abusing its access to u.s. taxpayer funds to try to pop gan dize to americans in this country, and the congress looked at that and passed the foreign agent registration act in 1938 to try to head off that sort of thing. i was wondering if an entity like the oversight committee on which you sit might look at this, might look at this as an oversight manner specifically with an eye toward creating new federal legislation that would ban something like this for officials in the future? >> yes, indeed. i have legislation called the
get foreign money out act with several dozen co-sponsors already, which is an attempt to address a gaping loophole that was opened up by the citizens united decision, and president obama at the time called it out. and he said, if what we're saying is that corporations can spend to the heavens in order to advance their agenda, the corporation doesn't really have a citizenship or a national al ty the way that a person does, because you can put foreign money into a domestic corporation, so to get foreign money out act, is an attempt to address at least part of the problem revealed by what is happening here, which is the in -- infusion of goern government money or foreign corporate money into domestic corporations and charging that money directly into our politics and we've seen the way in which putin and his autocratic army have attempted to inject ideological, racial,
ethnic, religious poison into the lifeblood of american politics through the social media. back since 2016, i mean that's what the story was all about. so it doesn't take much to alter the chemistry of of a nation's politics this way. so this is one of the bills i'm hoping we're looking at. in addition to others that deal with this general problem that you're raising, about, you know, foreign governments that will make a long-time investment in a potential president. >> yes, a multi-billion dollar investment in this case, in his son-in-law. congressman jamie raskin, suffer, it is great to see you. thank you very much for your time tonight. >> great to see you,rachel.   much more news ahead. stay with us. e you,rachel.   much more news ahead stay with us
(woman) oh. oh! hi there. you're jonathan, right? the 995 plan! yes, from colonial penn. your 995 plan fits my budget just right. excuse me? aren't you jonathan from tv, that 995 plan? yes, from colonial penn. i love your lifetime rate lock. that's what sold me. she thinks you're jonathan, with the 995 plan. -are you? -yes, from colonial penn. we were concerned we couldn't get coverage, but it was easy with the 995 plan. -thank you. -you're welcome. i'm jonathan for colonial penn life insurance company. this guaranteed acceptance whole life insurance plan is our #1 most popular plan. it's loaded with guarantees.
if you're age 50 to 85, $9.95 a month buys whole life insurance with guaranteed acceptance. you cannot be turned down for any health reason. there are no health questions and no medical exam. and here's another guarantee you can count on: guaranteed lifetime coverage. your insurance can never be cancelled. just pay your premiums. guaranteed lifetime rate lock. your rate can never increase. pardon me, i'm curious. how can i learn more about this popular 995 plan? it's easy. just call the toll-free number for free information. (soft music) ♪


today house speak yer nancy pelosi announced that she is testing negative for covid-19 now, a big deal because four days ago she got a positive test result, and started isolating. nancy pelosi is one of a dozen big names in washington, d.c. to come down with covid in the past week. it has been a remarkable, remarkable list. many of those people attended the grid iron dinner which is a swanky event in washington, about a week ago, so far at least 80 people who attended that event have tested positive. that's 12% of the attendees. but here's the good news. nobody appears to be in the
hospital. most people who have tested positive so far have reported symptoms, yes, but not scary symptoms. not have to go to the hospital symptoms. well, it was a requirement of that dinner that you had to be fully vaccinated in order to attend. if you still are looking for proof that vaccines work, here you go. here's a ton of very high profile positive cases with relatively mild symptoms, no severe illness, and none of them in the hospital. thank you, vaccines. vaccines are a center piece of the covid preparedness plan, the biden administration announced last month, the administration is trying to maintain our country's access to vaccines and boosters and treatments, and tests and masks, and last week, senator chuck schumer democratic leader and senator mitt romney the republican, announced a bipartisan plan to spend $10 billion, which would be fully covered by unspent money from the american rescue plan. but then, the senate left for easter break, this weekend,
without voting on it. after republicans tried to put up poison pill amendment in it to try to screw it up. then it left. congress is going to be gone until april 19th. in the meantime our ability to keep giving americans tests and treatments and life-saving vaccines is now kind of drifting into unfunded territory. the federal government says it does not have enough funds to buy more efforts and vaccines once our current supplies run out. thanks to congress, bailing and going home for easter. time's ticking. time's ticking


xfinity mobile runs on america's most reliable 5g network, but for up to half the price of verizon, so you have more money for more stuff. this phone? fewer groceries. this phone? more groceries! this phone? fewer concert tickets. this phone? more concert tickets. and not just for my shows. switch to xfinity mobile for half the price of verizon. that's a savings of over $500 a year. switch today. xfinity mobile runs on america's most
reliable 5g network, but for up to half the price of verizon, so you have more money for more stuff. this phone? fewer groceries. this phone? more groceries! this phone? fewer concert tickets. this phone? more concert tickets. and not just for my shows. switch to xfinity mobile for half the price of verizon. that's a savings of over $500 a year. switch today. the bad guys is the winner of the truly moving picture award. oh, stop! you making me blush. it's an action packed animated adventure.showthe world that you're more than just a scary stereotype. everyone will love. is this wagging? - good right?
thanks for being here for theshowtonight. it really is great to be back. i missed you. i'll see you tomorrow night samantha power is going to be here, our guest, you will want to be here for this. "way too early" with jonathan lemire is up next.   worrying new signs from the war in ukraine. there are increasing concerns about the threat of chemical weapons, as russia signals no let-up in its brutal assault. what the pentagon says about that, and the new u.s. weapons flooding into the fight.   plus, covid takes over the streets of shanghai. one of china's biggest cities is in a lockdown amid the country's largest-ever outbreak. what it means for the fight against the pandemic there, and here at home.   and president biden tackles the spread of ghost guns on the streets of america. how the white house hopes to stamp out the