>> well, you know, bill russell has pretty much laid the groundwork for activists to follow. he could've easily been quiet, his life probably would have been a lot would have been a lot easier if he was quiet. but the fact bill russell wanted to take upon his role, his platform, his position to be able to speak for all black people is why he is so special and why we celebrate him today. >> thank you both. that is all for us tonight.rachelmaddowshowstarts right now. good evening,rachel. >> good evening, charles. thank you very much. it's good to see you there. >> good to see you, too.   thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. after the 9/11 attacks it took about ten years for the united states government to get osama bin laden. they got him in may 2011. now as of tonight we know it took another 11 years after that to get bin laden's brain, to get
the man who was bin laden's number two in al-qaeda, the man who took over as al-qaeda's leader after bin laden was killed by u.s. navy s.e.a.l.s. the string of attacks and murders attributed to ayman al-zawahiri is stomach turning. he was the ideological mastermind behind the term of al-qaeda and groups like that towards indiscriminate mass murder of civilians anywhere including muslims all in the name of islamic piety. and how he got there now looking back at it seemed like a straight shot, but if you sort of dropped in on him at any time in his biography you wouldn't have known he was going there. by the time he was 15 years old he was a committed radical who wanted to try to impose islamic
theocracy by force. he formed his first terrorist cell when he was all of 15 years old. when islamic militants did assassinate egypt's president at a military parade in 1991 ayman al-zawahiri was one of hundreds islamic radicals tried and imprisoned for that crime. he was tortured for years in egyptian prisons. while he was there he became an informant supplying information on his comrades to the egyptian security services. he was released from prison in egypt in 1984 even more radical than when he had gone in. he nurtured the growth of his terrorist group which he'd literally founded as a teenager called aljihad or islamic jihad. he spent time after his release from prison in afghanistan, pakistan. he eventually became close with a rich saudi arabian guy who in
1988 had founded his own terrorist organization. the saudi guy was wealthy enough that he was able to bankroll much of their movement himself. he also had great connections all across the arab world. he was a great recruiter to their cause. ayman al-zawahiri eventually became the personal doctor which gave him a personal bond between their ideological co-interests. around 1990 they moved onto sudan and onto yemen to establish training camps there for international terrorists. at that time al-zawahiri was still really focused on trying to overthrow the government in egypt. that was his lifelong dream. in november 1993 his group islamic jihad, tried to assassinate the prime minister of egypt. they failed in that assassination attempt but they
did wound and kill civilians instead. two years later in 1995 egyptian islamic jihad blew up the egyptian embassy in pakistan. two years later in 1997 zawahiri helped plan the attack. november 1997, six gunmen spent 45 minutes methodically massacring the tourists at that tourist site in egypt including kids. people from egypt, people from columbia, people from switzerland and the u.k. and japan and germany. 62 people murdered. zawahiri was the mastermind behind that. he proclaimed groups like his and obama bin laden's group,
al-qaeda, and all the islamist terrorist groups he proclaimed were all united as what he called the international front against crusaders and jews, not to put too fine a point on it. his declaration in february 1998 proclaimed it their mission to target america, to target the united states of america and specifically to kill american people anywhere in the world. that was february 1998 that he wrote that declaration of war. later that same year in august 1998 they blew up the u.s. embassies in tanzania and kenya. more than 4,000 people injured. more than 200 people killed. then in october 2000 they hit the uss cole, a guided missile destroyer, while it was being refueled in yemen. 17 u.s. sailors killed, 37 injured. the year after that in june, june 2001, al-qaeda, bin laden's
group formally absorbed zawahiri's group. from that point forward they were no longer compatriots, now in 2001 al-qaeda was it. he was bin laden's second in command and his strategic think, where his ideological guide, his doctor, the chief operating officer of al-qaeda. two days before the 9/11 attacks in an operation masterminded by zawahiri, a man was assassinated, the strongest leader in that country opposed to the taliban. zawahiri wiped him out on september 9, 2001, doing a huge favor to the taliban, in debting the taliban to himself essentially. two days later of course they
rained down hell on the united states of america on september 11, 2001 in pennsylvania and new york city at the pentagon. this was the first wanted poster put out for ayman al-zawahiri. this is in october 2001 weeks after the attack. you see the reward for information leading to his capture at that point was $5 million. that would quintuple to a $25 million reward, the largest reward offered for anyone on earth. after a u.s. s.e.a.l. mission zawahiri became literally the most wanted terrorist on the fbi's list of most wanted terrorists. you can see if you look at the two different wanted posters you can see over 20 years-plus, while the reward did go up, they didn't change the photo of him. they didn't change much of what theygue about him or how to advise people to find him, but
tonight there is an update. tonight they've updated the post at long last. this has just changed this evening as we were prepping to get on the air. put a big red deceased across the bottom of it now. what we know is this. ayman al-zawahiri was back in afghanistan, which itself is a story. he was in a well-off neighborhood in the capital city of kabul. "the new york times" and "the washington post" are reporting that the house where he was killed was owned by a senior member of the taliban government known for having links to al-qaeda. the man's name is -- which is a familiar name. while the u.s. military no longer has anyone in afghanistan, the u.s. government was able to obtain intelligence on his whereabouts dating back for several months. they were specifically able to get information on the parn of life at the house where he was staying dating all the way back
to april. and the reason that's important, the reason they were watching the pattern of life at that house was both to confirm he was there but also to try to find the right way and right window to get him without getting anyone else, to get him and get him alone. president biden was briefed in detail on the prospects for a drone strike hitting that house. intelligence community reportedly built a physical model of the house that they wanted to hit. they used that physical model toshowthe president their intentions and to brief the president on how the mission might unfold. president biden said in remarks to the nation tonight that he gave the order a week ago that they could strike when the right time and the right circumstances arose. those right circumstances and that right time apparently arose saturday night just before 10:00 p.m. eastern, which was just after 6:00 a.m. sunday morning in kabul. it was reportedly two hell fire missiles fired from a cia operated drone. the president said tonight there
were no other casualties other than ayman al-zawahiri himself. the president also said this. >> the united states continues to demonstrate our resolve and our capacity to defend the american people against those who seek to do us harm. we -- we make it clear again tonight that no matter how long it takes, no matter where you hide, if you are a threat to our people, the united states will find you and take you out. >> it has been 20 years and 10 months since al-qaeda killed 3,000 americans on u.s. soil in the 9/11 attacks. it took 20 years and 10 months to get the two guys who ran al-qaeda during that attack. astonishingly the leader of the republican party, the party's last president and their likely next presidential nominee said just this weekend that, quote, nobody's gotten to the bottom of
9/11. literally said that this weekend. nobody's gotten to the bottom of 9/11. what was that all about? well, it took 20 years and ten months but actually somebody definitively has gotten to the bottom of 9/11. ayman al-zawahiri killed yesterday at the age of 71 with the blood of thousands and thousands of innocent people on his hands. joining us now live from the white house is john kirby. until a few months ago he was press secretary for the department of defense. now he's spokesman for president biden's national security council, also retired rear admiral in the united states navy. admiral kirby, i really appreciate you making time to be with us this evening. it's a historic night. >> absolutely,rachel. it's good to be with you. a good day for the country. >> let me ask you in my summary there in terms of what we know what happened both about mr.
zawahiri's background is there anything i got wrong or anything else you can tell us how this unfolded? >> i think you did a pretty good job telling who this man was, what he was responsible for. there was a lot of work done in the intelligence community to get us to this point. it was painstaking, meticulous work. as you pointed out in your opening,rachel, the president was kept informed throughout, finally made the decision in late july, july 25th specifically. even though he'd given the order on the 25th the conditions needed to be right. weather needed to be factored in. of course mr. zawahiri needed to be where we thought he would be on his pattern of life. and the president was clear he didn't want us to cause civilian casualties, so that also factored into making sure
conditions were right. and when it was, we took the shot. >> with something like this the only antecedent that comes to mind really is that famous image of president obama and secretary of state clinton and others in the situation room watching the raid unfold that ultimately killed osama bin laden. i just have to ask you in terms of historians looking back at this day these briefings, these planning sessions, the president's decision process was it gravely interrupted? was the process interrupted at all by the fact the president has covid and he's been in isolation on and off during the time this was all being decided? >> no, not at all,rachel. he worked right through his time with covid. in fact, he's still isolating now and he has a rebound case here. it did not affect his decision making process at all. he was able to constantly stay in touch with his security team
without, no impact whatsoever. i happened to be here in 2011. i was working for the chairman of the joint chief of staffs in the mission to get bin laden went down. and so for me this was also a nice bookend to that. >> i have to ask you in terms of what happens next here. do you believe -- does the administration believe that the taliban knew zawahiri was in kabul? obviously the justification for invading afghanistan in 2001 was that the taliban were providing a safe haven for zawahiri and bin laden and the organization in 2011. did they know he was back in afghanistan, back in kabul? >> we know some senior leaders of the haqqani network were aware. and we know that from the way they tried to cover things up over the last 24, 48 hours. that's really about as far as i can go into this. but we have indications that
some of them were aware. look, al-qaeda was on the ground in afghanistan even when the president decided to end that war. and we knew that, and we talked about that, that al-qaeda was already re-establishing a presence there. we also said that we were going to watch that very, very closely and stay vigilant and make sure we had capacity from an over the horizon perspective to deal with any threats to the homeland. mr. zawahiri's presence in kabul certainly met that test because he's been actively involved in planning and plotting threats against our homeland going forward. >> one of the things that the president mentioned tonight in his remarks is that zawahiri has been recently making videos, calling for people to attack americans and attack u.s. interests. >> that's right. >> we've heard from a senior administration official it's possible even after his death al-qaeda or the confederates may
release further zawahiri materials. does that raise additional threats to the united states? >> it could. we don't know exactly how many video he recorded or there's still some in the can,rachel. but it's entirely possible they could put that out there as a way to inspire future attacks and future al-qaeda planners and plotters. and so we're going to be watching for that as well. i can tell you our vigilance is very high, and we won't be caught off-guard when they do try to do that. again, we'll see. we just don't know if he actually has additional videos he hasn't released. >> along those lines let me ask you in terms of being aware as you said at least some of elements of the taliban, the regime in charge in afghanistan knew that zawahiri was there, expressed anger or upset that this strike happened within their territory. do you anticipate that the
taliban themselves could try to mount some sort of retaliation? or if they do, are they capable of causing harm to u.s. interests? >> we're going to be watching real close,rachel. we don't have any indications right now that that particular threat could manifest itself, but both the president was very clear tonight as he has been quite frankly since the war in afghanistan ended that we're going to stay vigilant. we have the capability and capacity to conduct over the horizon counter terrorism strikes. we've proved that this weekend, and so i go back to what the president said, which is there's no greater responsibility that he feels than for the safety of the american people and our national security interests around the world, and i think, again, we moved that over the last couple of days, and we'll stay able and capable of proving that going forward if, in fact, we have to do that. >> admiral john kirby, thank you for your time tonight. i feel like congratulations is not exactly the right word here,
but i think thank you probably is. so thank you, sir. >> you're welcome. thank you. >> all right, joining us now from london is richard engel. nbc news chief foreign correspondent who has covered al-qaeda and ayman al-zawahiri for decades, a man who knows more than your average bearer about the egyptian radical islam. >> it is a hisseric night, of course and i think it's an important night. and yes, i've been covering him since the mid-1990s. i was a reporter in egypt when terrorist attacks were becoming an increasing problem in the country. you mentioned the luxor attack when a group of islamists went on a rampage and started massacring tourists in front of the monuments there. and then he decided to keep
going, and he joined up with osama bin laden, founded al-qaeda versus this international front against jews and crusaders, and now we have come to where we are today. and i think there are really two ways of looking at it. what you just heard from admiral kirby was kind of a positive spin on it. it shows that the united states is still capable, that if the taliban goes back on its deal -- and clearly it was going back on its deal or at least elements of the taliban were going back on the deal -- and welcomed in al-qaeda, that they wouldn't be able to get away with it because america has eyes on and has the ability to carry out lethal strikes from the sky. so you can say the policy is working because if there's al-qaeda infiltration or presence the u.s. can take care of it. but there's another way of looking at it. it shows how confident and how arrogant one might say the taliban have become.
even after swearing they would never host al-qaeda leaders again, they'd never go back and repeat the past, they don't just have an al-qaeda leader, they have the al-qaeda leader. he's hosted right in the center of kabul. he's there for months, and it shows that they believe they can -- they can do whatever they want. i was in afghanistan after u.s. troops withdrew from the country, after the taliban drove them out, and i met taliban leaders. and they believed that what happened was a miracle, that they were given this victory because of a gift from god, that they were untouchable. you can look in their eyes -- if you ever notice a lot of american reporters were going around with the taliban, there was no hostility. they were not just proud of what they had done and wanted toshowit off, they believed that this was a miracle and that it was their duty toshowthe world god's actions on earth. so when you have that kind of
mentality, you're not really intimidated by what the u.s. is threatening to do. you say, well, we've gone through hard times in the past and look where our faith brought us. so they had bin laden -- they had ayman al-zawahiri in the country, near the palace for months. the fact the u.s. got him, still was able to get informants who were able to establish a pattern of life inside the building. but over time will those informants continue to be as good, and will they be able to find other targets who aren't necessarily as famous as ayman al-zawahiri, which the united states has been tracking for decades. >> well, as you lay that out i mean this is obviously a very rude interruption in revelry the taliban might have been under in terms of being divinely inspired
and divinely protected for their actions. i asked admiral kirby if they were anticipating retaliation from the taliban, and if so is the taliban capable of inflicting pain on the united states in a way that would actually hurt. he didn't answer. he basically said we'll watch for that, but what do you think their reaction will be to this strike now it's happened, and again, probably a surprise to them given how they were to hide him in a relatively easy to find place. >> so, first of all, there are big divisions in the taliban, which is one thing that the taliban weren't expecting. you heard admiral kirby talk about the haqqani network. that is a big group of the taliban that is particularly close to al-qaeda, and not all of the other factions in the taliban support them. but they were still a very, very powerful faction. perhaps the most powerful in terms of -- of security. so a very large segment of the
taliban will be shamed that this happened. they hosted this important figure with whom they had a relationship going back many, many years and he was killed in their territory. you know the taliban released a statement after a drone strike this weekend -- it seems to be the same drone strike. they didn't say who the target was at the time, and they called it a violation of their sovereignty against international norms. and they said that it could close the doors for future cooperation and opportunities. so in a way the response was a rejection but fairly measured when you look at other statements from the taliban. so they were angry. they're saying it's going to close the door for other cooperation and it's a problem, but they weren't threatening to burn down the white house or carry out an attack like this. but there will certainly be elements within the taliban and within al-qaeda who will -- who
will want to seek revenge. that said, he was not a particularly charismatic leader. he never really filled the shoes of osama bin laden. osama bin laden was the face. he was the brand name of al-qaeda. ayman al-zawahiri was the legacy player, he was the intellectual. he was the scholar, if you will, establishing the bedrock of the ideology, but he never commanded a lot of personal loyalty within the group. the next leader might be able to be more effective that way. >> richard engel, nbc news chief foreign correspondent in london, technically on vacation, but that's always fungible given your beat. richard, thank you so much. i really appreciate you being here, my friend. >> my pleasure.   again, president biden tonight confirming from the white house the news that the leader of al-qaeda, ayman al-zawahiri age 71 who took over leadership of the grip in 2011 after u.s. navy s.e.a.l.s osama
bin laden he's been killed by a dreen strike in kabul in afghanistan. that news being confirmed by the president tonight in remarks from the white house. 20 years and 10 months after the attacks of 9/11 killed 3,000 americans on u.s. soil. we'll have very much more tonight on this baizy news night. stay with us. his baizy news night. stay with us to a child, this is what conflict looks like. children in ukraine are caught in the crossfire of war, forced to flee their homes. a steady stream of refugees has been coming across all day. it's basically cold. lacking clean water and sanitation. exposed to injury, hunger.  exhausted and shell shocked from what they've been through. every dollar you give can help bring a meal, a blanket, or simply hope to a child living in conflict. please call or go online to givenowtosave.org
today with your gift of $10 a month, that's just $0.33 a day. we cannot forget the children in places like syria, born in refugee camps, playing in refugee camps, thinking of the camps as home. please call or go online to givenowtosave.org today. with your gift of $10 a month, your gift can help children like ara in afghanistan, where nearly 20 years of conflict have forced the people into extreme poverty weakened and unable to hold herself up, ara was brought to a save the children's center, where she was diagnosed and treated for severe malnutrition. every dollar helps. please call or go online to givenowtosave.org today. with your gift of $10 a month, just $0.33 a day. and thanks to special government grants that are available now, every dollar you give can multiply up to ten times the impact.
and when you use your credit card, you'll receive this special save the children tote bag toshowyou won't forget the children who are living their lives in conflict. every war is a war against children. please give now. vo: everyday costs are going up... so democrats in congress are doing something about it. launching a plan that reduces monthly expenses. it drives down the cost of prescription drugs. and ramps up production of american-made clean energy - reducing energy bills for families. we can take on climate change, in a way that saves families real money, right when they need it most. we do it by quickly passing the inflation reduction act. americans can't afford to wait. - i'm norm. - i'm szasz. [norm] and we live in columbia, missouri. we do consulting, but we also write. [szasz] we take care of ourselves constantly; it's important. we walk three to five times a week,
a couple miles at a time. - we've both been taking prevagen for a little more than 11 years now. after about 30 days of taking it, we noticed clarity that we didn't notice before. - it's still helping me. i still notice a difference. prevagen. healthier brain. better life.
in 1932 the u.s. was experiencing the worst of the great depression. unemployment in 1932 was 23%.
the value of shares on the dow had dropped almost 90% compared with what it had been just three years earlier before the crash. the country in 1932 was just in economic freefall. and as of 1932 u.s. veterans -- veterans who had fought in the first world war, they were as or more economically desperate as any other americans. but u.s. veterans who had fought in world war i had what amounted to an iou from the u.s. government to pay them some cash. u.s. veterans who had fought in world war i had been promise during the war they would receive a bonus payment from the government, a payment for each day they served on active duty either at home or abroad. and in the spring of 1932 veterans who had been promised that bonus, they came to washington. thousands of them came to washington to demand that the government make good on those ious and pay the soldiers what
they were owed. the soldiers setup camps in downtown washington just outside the capitol. they planned to stay as long as it took. president herbert hoover, one of the worst presidents in american history, responded by calling in the united states army to attack the veterans and chase them out. the army burned down their camps, charged them with bayonets, shot chemical weapons at them. historian jonathan m. katz published a book this year. in that book he writes the army chief of staff who led the attack on the veterans, general douglas macarthur, he later bragged by attacking those veterans in d.c. he was sure he had thwarted a communist revolution. okay. tonight there are american veterans again sleeping outside d.c. -- excuse me, sleeping outside in d.c. in the shadow of
the u.s. capitol building. the reason the veterans are there this time is because of the u.s. government's promise to pay for health care for veterans exposed to toxic burn pits during their service abroad. congress was supposed to pass legislation to make good on that promise last week, and everybody thought they would. but senate republicans changed their mind at the last moment and suddenly discovered previously unknown reasons to vote against that veterans bill even though they had previously voted for it. veterans and their families are not giving up. they are fighting to get it passed, keep the pressure on. many of veterans who are camped outside the capitol today and tonight have been there since thursday. on saturday this weekend president biden said he wanted to go meet with them in person, but because he still has to isolate because of covid, he instead face timed with those veterans, also sent over boxes of pizza toshowthem his support. democrats say they will bring this veterans bill up for a vote again as soon as tomorrow. but the question, of course, is
will senate republicans continue to block it? what else will veterans and their supporters have to do to make sure this promise gets kept? joining us now is montana u.s. senator john tester, chair of the veterans affairs committee and the lead sponsor of that bill to help veterans exposed to toxic burn pits get them the care they need. thanks for joining us tonight. >> thank you,rachel. my pleasure. >> i would be remiss if i did not actually ask you as we start here for your reaction announced by the president that ayman al-zawahiri, the leader of al-qaeda, has been killed by a u.s. drone strike. obviously that makes this a historic night, but want to get your reaction particularly as chairman of the veterans affairs committee at a time when so many americans have fought in the post-9/11 wars. >> a couple things,rachel.
he made the right decision and got the job done. and i think this really falls back on people in the military and our intelligence community being able to find and deliver a strike on a person who has got a long history of doing bad things to this nation. so i think it's a great day in america, and i applaud the president's actions. >> i think it's a significant day particularly for american veterans. i mean, the taliban providing safe haven for zawahiri and bin laden and the lead up to "nfl live" was what started ended being america's longest war in afghanistan. it is one of the hallmark injuries of that war in afghanistan and the following war in iraq that veterans had toxic exposures including exposure to burn pits, which was not an act of the enemy. it was an act of the u.s. military. this was in effect a friendly
fire injury that the u.s. did. it always seemed to me to impart a certain moral imperative to the requirement of the u.s. government to make sure we make it right by the veterans who were hurt by that. do you as it stands tonight have confidence that this bill is going to pass? >> well, i sure hope it does because it's the right thing to do. i don't need to go back because you've laid it out very well,rachel. these folks went to a place far different than this country and served, followed orders and did what they needed to do to be successful, and in the process because of burn pits where all sorts of toxins were burned, they were breathing bad air that resulted in cancers and lung conditions that are going to affect them for the rest of their life. and so the promise we make to the men and women who serve when you come back whether it's an injury you can see or injury you can't see, we're going to fix you. we're going to make you right, and that's what this bill is about. it was and still is the number one issue of virtually every veteran service organization out
there, the people who represent the veterans have. it was first brought up to me 15 years ago, and for the last year and a half we've been working very, very diligently in a bipartisan way to get this bill to the senate and we did on the 16th of june and it passed with 84 votes. now basically that same bill that passed with 84 votes is now in a political turmoil that, by the way, our veterans can't afford to have it in a political turmoil. they mean too much to this country. these are the folks who fight for our freedoms, these are the folks that keep this country free. and for congress not to pass this bill is political malpractice. we need to get it passed. hopefully that happens tomorrow, but who knows. i thought it was going to pass last week, and surprise, surprise some other folks had a different idea. but let me just say this and this is a fact. the bill that the republicans voted against last week is the
very same bill with the exception of one line and it dealt with the va's ability to buy out providers contracts. that was stripped out. but with that exception it's the very same bill that passed with 84 votes on june 16th. >> now, senator pat toomey, retired republican senator pat toomey he thinks whatever this technical change is, this not particularly important change is they so object to that caused them to change all their votes, he thinks with a 50-vote threshold you should be able to adopt an amendment to strip that out and everything would be fine. it sounds to me like trying to muddy the waters around procedural hurdles that don't necessarily need to exist here. but is he in some sense actually pointing out a pathway toward getting this passed by saying he at least wants an amendment to strip that language to be a 50-vote threshold? >> well, i believe so. but to be honest with you,
rachel, any time we've had an amendment up for a budget point of order it's always been a 60-vote threshold. it's different with this. i think it sets a precedent not healthy for congress, but nonetheless i do believe there's a path to get this done tomorrow. it's going to take -- it's going to take our two leaders, schumer and mcconnell, negotiating to get an agreement where we can get this bill passed. remember this, a health care that is delayed is health care that's denied. and we've already had many, many folks die from disorders from these toxic burn pits. and it's not only the veteran that has suffered and are suffering but it's also their family. and when we send folks off especially to the war we just got out of for the last 20 years, they're exposed to stuff that people shouldn't be exposed to. and these burn pits are just one example. and it's just the right thing to do to get this done.
and it's why we have veterans as you already pointed out sleeping on the steps of the capitol tonight saying, come on, guys, we put it on the line for you, you need to back up your end of the deal. >> john tester, democrat of the veteran affairs committee. thank you for your time tonight. keep us apprised. i know this is going to be a hard fight in the days ahead.   more news ahead. stay with us. ahead   more news ahead. stay with us and frustrating experience getting hearing aids can be. that's why i founded lively. affordable, high-quality hearing aids with all of the features you need, and none of the hassle. i use lively hearing aids and it's been wonderful. it's so light and so small but it's a fraction of the cost of the other devices. they cost thousands less. it's insanely user friendly. you take the hearing test online, the doctor programs in the settings. you don't even need to go into an office. they're delivered to your door in a few days and you're up and running in no time. it connects via bluetooth to my phone. you can stream music and you can answer phone calls.
the audiologist was so incredible she's full of all kinds of little helpful hints i love it. they're a game changer for me. i feel like i can take on anything. it feels great to be in control of my hearing. better hearing has never been this easy. try lively risk-free for 100 days. visit listenlively.com i would say that to me an important aspect is too... meta portal with smart sound. helps reduce your background noise. bring that sense of calm, really... so you come through, loud and clear. meta portal. the smart video calling device that makes work from home work for you. ♪ it's the most wonderful time of the year ♪ claritin provides non-drowsyce symptom relief from over 200 indoor and outdoor allergens, day after day. feel the clarity and make today the most wonderful time of the year. live claritin clear.
the day of the heart attack, i was scared. i didn't know what to do. seeing my daughter have a heart attack, it shook me. aspirin helps reduce the chance of another heart attack by 31%. be sure to talk to your doctor before you begin an aspirin regimen. who says you can't get 100% whiter teeth? try crest whitening emulsions. remove 10 years of stains... in just 4 days. and it's enamel safe for everyday use. better... faster... 100% whiter teeth. crest. the #1 teeth whitening brand in america.

seen this ad? it's not paid for by california tribes. it's paid for by the out of state gambling corporations that wrote prop 27. it doesn't tell you 90% of the profits go to the out of state corporations. a tiny share goes to the homeless, and even less to tribes. and a big loophole says, costs to promote betting reduce money for the tribes, so they get less. hidden agendas. fine print. loopholes. prop 27. they didn't write it for the tribes or the homeless. they wrote it for themselves.   fair warning, tomorrow is going to be bananas as a primary
day. here's just some of the leading candidates in tomorrow's republican primaries. in arizona there's a trump endorsed candidate for governor who has made the 2020 election the number one issue of her campaign. she obviously says the election was stolen and president biden secretly isn't president. and if she becomes governor she says she'll eliminate mail-in voting in arizona swlz eliminate all voting machines. plus she says without any evidence of course her primary election is already being stolen from her right now ahead of time. then there's republican primary for u.s. senate in arizona. in that race trump's preferred candidate is a guy almost entirely funded by billionaire tech gurue peter teal, a man who says he does not believe in democracy and america really started going downhill when women were given the right to vote. it goes without saying that senate candidate blake masters
believes the election was stolen. and he blames black people, frankly, end quote. then the republican primary for secretary of state in arizona. the trump backed candidate there is an election denier who says he'll only accept the results of tomorrow's primary if he wins tomorrow's primary. he was at january 6th himself, and he says he's a member of the right-wing pro-trump paramilitary group, the oath keepers. members of which are on trial right now for seditious conspiracy because of their role in the january 6th attack. all three of those trump backed candidates have a very good chance of winning their republican primaries tomorrow in arizona. meanwhile, missouri, the republican primary for u.s. senate there features the state's former republican guv ner who was forced to resign from that job in about five minutes in a scandal of
blackmailing his mistress. more recently his ex-wife has accused him in court of physically abusing both her and their kids. and he's released an ad that features him and other guys with guns in tactical gear pretending to hunt fellow republicans they deem insufficiently trumpy, by storming into their house with guns. eric greiti's main rival for the senate nomination in missouri is another man named eric. his name is eric schmidt. he's the sitting attorney general in missouri. you may best remember him for joining a lawsuit to try to get the u.s. supreme court to overturn biden's election and then launching a fund-raising event off of it. tonight i guess this is breaking news on the eve of missouri's primary donald trump released an endorsement in this contest. trump says he's endorsing eric. i'm not kidding, this is
actually what trump's endorsement press release says. i'm therefore proud to announce eric has my complete endorsement. and yes, both erics have enthusiastically accepted that endorsement tonight. absolutely unreal. i should also mention in the great state of washington republican congresswoman jamie herrera butler -- that of course explains why trump is backing a primary challenger against her. but the guy trump is backing, this guy has like a whole rolodex of extremist and white militia members connected to his campaign. he keeps showing up at events and posing for photos with guys who spread anti-semitic and neo-nazi propaganda online, who say things like hitler was complicated and hitler was misunderstood. the candidate himself said in an interview, quote, i don't think
there's anything wrong would there being a white people special-interest group. that's who trump is backing in a primary challenge to a sitting republican congresswoman in washington state tomorrow. probably the most watched vote tomorrow actually doesn't involve a candidate at all. it's the vote in the state of kansas on abortion. if it passes it would effectively let republicans in the kansas state legislature ban abortion. this will be the first time that voters have cast ballots directly on abortion rights since the supreme court overturned roe. to make sure it passes kansas republicans have put the measure on the ballot during what they expect to be a low turn out primary election, one in which mostly republican candidates are running in races so mostly republican voters are expected to turn out. they've also made the language of the ballot measures as complicated and confusing as possible so that no normal person can be expected to decipher what a yes vote or no vote really means in this context. we've also got reports of
misleading text messages being sent to kansas voters describing a no vote as a yes vote, and a yes vote as a no vote in a way designed to bamboozle people into voting in a way don't actually intend. we're 99 days out from the mid-terms in which all these candidates who win these primaries tomorrow are going to be on the ballot in the general election. and we'll tell you one silver lining here. the great steve kornacki is going to host a special focused on what's going to happen in those mid-terms, and that is coming up tonight after theshow. 10:00 p.m. eastern, you won't want to miss it. stay with us. it. stay with us plus an extra boost of support for your immunity, brain, and hair, skin & nails. new one a day multi+. i typed in my dad's name... and i found his childhood home. he's been wondering about the address for seventy years... (chuckle) and i found it in five minutes.
travel back in time in no time with the 1950 census on ancestry. listen, i'm done settling. because this is my secret. traveli put it on once,no time no more touch ups! secret had ph balancing minerals; and it helps eliminate odor, instead of just masking it. so pull it in close. secret works. to a child, this is what conflict looks like. children in ukraine are caught in the crossfire of war, forced to flee their homes. a steady stream of refugees has been coming across all day. it's basically cold. lacking clean water and sanitation. exposed to injury, hunger.
exhausted and shell shocked from what they've been through. every dollar you give can help bring a meal, a blanket, or simply hope to a child living in conflict. please call or go online to givenowtosave.org today with your gift of $10 a month, that's just $0.33 a day. we cannot forget the children in places like syria, born in refugee camps, playing in refugee camps, thinking of the camps as home. please call or go online to givenowtosave.org today. with your gift of $10 a month, your gift can help children like ara in afghanistan, where nearly 20 years of conflict have forced the people into extreme poverty weakened and unable to hold herself up, ara was brought to a save the children's center, where she was diagnosed and treated for severe malnutrition.
every dollar helps. please call or go online to givenowtosave.org today. with your gift of $10 a month, just $0.33 a day. and thanks to special government grants that are available now, every dollar you give can multiply up to ten times the impact. and when you use your credit card, you'll receive this special save the children tote bag toshowyou won't forget the children who are living their lives in conflict. every war is a war against children. please give now.
♪ got my hair got my head ♪ introducing new one a day multi+. a complete multivitamin plus an extra boost of support for your immunity,
brain, and hair, skin & nails. new one a day multi+.   this weekend president biden joined the small but growing group of americans who have gotten covid and then taken the anti-viral drug paxlovid. with the help they've recovered from covid, tested negative only to have what they're calling a rebound. after finishing the five-day course of the paxlovid pills and test negative at the end of it, the president like many americans then tested positive again a couple of days later. now, statistically they say this a rare thing. the data says only about 2 to 6% of people who take paxlovid face a rebound from covid like this. but the president being one of those places a spotlight on it. the president continues to feel well even though he's still
testing positive as of this morning, and that's the important bottom line here. he's okay, paxlovid is working and has been working for thousands of americans, keeping people alive and out of the hospital and ideally dealing with relatively mild symptoms just like the president has experienced. but like the president people who get these rebound cases after completing a course of paxlovid they face a couple of tricky questions particularly around infectiousness. are you contagious once you start testing positive again? the consensus there is probably yes. the cdc now says if you get a paxlovid rebound you've got to go back into isolation for another five days and wear your mask for another ten day just as if it's a new infection. that's the protocol the president is under right now. researchers are still investigating paxlovid rebound. but for people taking that anti-viral drug and excited to test negative at the end of that five-day course the increasing visibility of paxlovid rebound
shows a negative test at the end of that course of drugs might just be a temporary reprieve, and your infectiousness might still be a live issue. that has implications for everybody taking that treatment, definitely still gaps in our knowledge here about the president's announcement about this should spur new research if not new recommendations hopefully sooner rather than later. watch this space. sooner rather n later. watch this space choose safelite. we can come to you and replace your windshield. >> grandkid: here you go! >> tech: wow, thank you! >> customer and grandkids: bye! >> tech: bye! don't wait, schedule now. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ hi, i'm eileen. i live in vancouver, washington and i write mystery novels. dogs have been such an important part of my life. i have flinn and a new puppy. as i was writing, i found that i just wasn't as sharp and i new i needed to do something so i started taking prevagen. i realized that i was much more clear and i was remembering the details that i was supposed to. prevagen keeps my brain working right.
prevagen. healthier brain. better life. [sfx: stomach gurgling] it's nothing... sounds like something. ♪ when you have nausea, heartburn, indigestion, ♪ ♪ upset stomach, diarrhea. ♪ pepto bismol coats and soothes for fast relief... when you need it most.

girls trip. ♪ it's the most wonderful time of the year ♪ pepto bismol coats and soothes for fast relief... get fast relief of your worst allergy symptoms. including nasal congestion. with powerful claritin-d. so you can breathe better. feel the clarity and make today the most wonderful time of the year. claritin - d. that is gonna do it for us.
for now. i have good news. now, it is time for a special countdown to the midterms with the good and great steve kornacki. steve, i'm so looking forward to this. >> hey,rachel. thank you. i'm looking forward to it too. we are inside 100 days, can get to get started. i'll see her on election night too. that's all we're gonna be talking about. with that, folks, the countdown to the midterms on. ♪ ♪ ♪ >>