television and you want to decide on something to watch. you get the electronic grid on screen that shows you the channels that you have to choose the left side and there is the time slots for the various shows, on the axis across o the top, the titles fo the shows and this is what it looks like, you click on what you want to record, whatu you want to watch and that's how you get there. in my house, the remote never works so you have to like open up three cabinet doors and bench pressin one of the dogs with th left arm while you bank shot with a tin foil with the right arm and notice that you're clicking on it while you swear, that's how it worked at in my house and the thing you're pointing at and swearing at on
the tv, that's the electronic grid when we're watching television and it's not just an american thing, anywhere around the world where there are so-called smart tvs. check this out. this was today in russia. this happened on at least three different major tv providers in russia today. the grid looks at first as the normal rundown of channels and shows but if you go for example to cham one or everyone the big state sponsored tv channel, it looks on the grid that every single program has the same name for all the channel, all the time slot,l, all the shows have the same name, and you don't have to read russian you can see that they are the same and i don't read russian and we had it translated and it turns out according to your tv in russia, every singleshowon every single station on every time slotsi was called on your handss the blood of thousands of ukrainians and hundreds of their murdered children.
tv and the authorities are lying. noho to war. that was the title of everyshowon russian television today. according to everybody's tv grid when they turned on their tvs. somebody hacked at least three of thest biggest cable tv providers in russia today, so that is what it looked like all over russia when people went to flip onen the tube. to see what was on. to see whatha the options were. also today, a fairly may yr russian news outlet, one called lenta, this is their web site lenta.ru, and today, same day that somebody hacked all of the tvsat in russia, somebody re-wre what appeared to be dozens of headlines and dozens of articles on the lenta news web site. now, as you know, as we've been reporting here, for the last couple of months, no independent media, is allowed to operate anymore in russia, putin has literally made it a crime,
punishable to 15 years in prison to report on the war in ukraine or even call it a war, but look at what the lenta web site looked like earlier today, in russian. this is with english translation, so you can see what the headlines look like, but oh, boy wow, this isn't normal, vladimir putin lied about russia'sou plans in ukraine. putin unleashed one of the bloodiest wars in the 21st century. the headlines on the news web site. record spending on russia did not defeat ukraine. and the moskva ship sunk by ukrainian missile. russia completed destroyed the cityoy of mariupol. leaving soldiers in ukraine. vladimir putin is afraid to reveal the truth to his family. the main thief of russians. vladimir putin has turned into a pathetic dictator and paranoid.
russia threatens to destroy the whole world. zelenskyy turned out to be cooler than putin. war makes it easier to cover up fa failures in i the economy. putin must go. he is leading russia into the abyss. all i separate headlines on onef the biggest pro kremlin state controlled news sites in russia. and it wasn't just the headlines that they changed, each one of those that i described to you, it goes it a whole article that has also been rewritten. i mean in a country where they do in the allow journalism anymore, they do not allow criticism of the government and especially of the war, these sentences, posted today on a russian news site,da these were like a death con 1 level threat to the state. look at this. quote russian president vladimir putin bears full responsibility for the senseless and bloody war against ukraine, guided by far-fetchedby pretexts about
threats to russia, the head of state plunged two neighboring peoples into a war in which there will only be losers no winners and thrust rush that into the 90s that he loves to scare russias with and he has turned into a dictator who began to believe in conspiracy theories and lostpi touch with reality. right now, putin is depriving millions of rushness of their future. and taking the lives of innocent ukrainians. vladimir putin must immediately stop the war and resign. it is one thing to read that in a western news source or to read that in any news source in the world anywhere other than in russia, but to read o that in russia? again, today, that was a russian major news site today, altered to include that article and dozens of others like it. and to start go through them, you notice there were a few things that were consistent in each of those articles posted.
for example near the top ofes eh offo the articles, posted in th special news site today, there was a disclaimer. warning that this had been posted without the permission of the news organization saying that it was definitelyiz going be taken down so if you want to read, this take a screen shot of itre immediately because this won'tit last. andte indeed that disclaimer wa true. all thoseer articles and headlis while immediately taken down off the russian news site that they were up there for long enough that the great and good people at the internet archive, they captured and saved all of it. they've got screen shot. they've got the historical records of what those news sites looked like when the truthful anti-putin stuff was posted just for moments. they got the archive of it. so it can't be erased now. even though the russian government did so. and in this case, what is fascinating we know this, two journalists, two young journalists who used to work for lenta, for this news organization, they say that they
didga it, they have reportedly fled russia, they are outside russia personally, they apparently still have log-ins to access the news site, so that is how they did it, preened, and logged in and uploaded everything and logged in and got out but they posted today, identifying themselves by name. as the people who did it. eger and alexandria, they gave their names. they stood up and said we're the ones who didid this. and then they said quote, we are lookingid for work. and lawyers. and probably political asylum. and then they sign off with gn this, do not be afraid, do not be silent, resist. you're not alone, we are many, the future is ours. fne war. peace to ukraine. and we do not know where those two brave russian journalists are tonight. the ones who did it. again, it has been reported that they're outside russia but we do
not know where they are. weno also don't know who hacked all of the tvs in russia today either. but man, this is living manifest hope that bravery is contagious. that dictatorships are brutal. that they have to criminalize criticism of all kinds because they know it is powerful, because they knowth they can't survive the truth. the reason this all happened today of all days is because today is the biggest nonreligious holiday in russia. it's the anniversary of the surrender of nazi germany in world war geii, you what what w call ve day, ricket, victory day, and they make a big deal out of it,ma more than we do ana big military parade in moscow, north korea style military parade. putin gave aa speech. and which is usually something
that no one outside of russia much cares about but in this case there was rampant speculation that putin would use victory day today, thatn he wod use his speech on this huge day, this huge occasion that the military parade and all of the rest of it, there was widespread expectations we use the speech to declare something about the war that he has started in ukraine. speculation that he might declare victory himself, and announce how russiaf, intended lead things in ukraine. or maybe he didin the opposite. maybe he would formally declare war. no longer call this a special military operation, maybe he call it a war, declare war, and announce that russia had not just begun the fight and call up a mobilization of more russian troops to goza into ukraine and permanently occupy it. widespread international and wellwi informed speculation tha putin was going to announce something today about this insane war that he has started,
some way to get out or get way further in. that's what everybody thought he was going to do today and then he did not do that. he gave a standard putin talking points speech. including all the weird stuff about how ukraine was going to attack russia. really? and so this was a defensive invasion. and the war is going great. and everybodyng else but him is nazi. a standard weird con spear toral blather. he announced nothing new at all. not even weird insane backwards justification for what he said. why didn't he make the dog bark today? hackers who got the tv stations, in russia, and braved dissident journalists and regulard russi people, know that this would haveop been the day for putin, this day is all the symbolism he wants for this war, he spent so much time trying to make this war seem like some variation on world lwar, two when he finall gets to w the day, that
commemorates russia in world war ii, he wimps out and decides not to say anything at all? and 75 days into what he thought was a week long war and he is not winning and he's not going to change anything. today, the pulitzer prizes were announced, pulitzer prize board gave ar special citation to th quote journalists of ukraine. for their courage, durance and commitment to reporting during the propaganda war in russia, despite bombardment, abductions, occupation and even deaths in their ranks, they have persisted in their effort to honor ukraine and journalists around the world. thend pulitzer special citation today forer the courage of ukrainian journalists. also today, the u.s. government announced another round of sanctions against russia, including sanctions today specifically against channel one of c the bombastic kremlin
propaganda tv channel that had the name of every one of its programs today changed by hackers into statements against the war. today, the president of the united states once again pressed congress to quickly approve billions more dollars in aid and weapons to ukraine. to help the ukrainians fight russia off. this weekend,ru as i'm sure you saw, first lady jill biden went to ukraine, a surprise trip, brought flowers and a hug to the first lady of ukraine who has been in hiding since the start of the war, since the ukrainian government announced that the start of the war, that they believe part of the russian invasion plan was not only to immediately seize ukraine's capital but to kill president zelenskyy and his wife and kids as well. mrs. zelenskyy has not been seen in public since the announcement since the start of the war, not until this weekend, not until this moment you are seeing here when she welcomed jill biden in that embrace in these pictures. recent reporting from nbc news
and f "the new york times" has revealed that the united states has provided intelligence to the ukrainians that they have used toey target and kill an astonishingly large number of russian generals on the front lines of the war. and also, to target and sink the moskva, the cruiser of the russianr fleet in the black se sunk in the black sea by ukrainian missiles. today following further news from washington that president biden wants no further leaks about matters like those, that he has summoned the cia director and thene director of national intention to make sure that sensitive information like that doesn't see the lightio of day again. but how sensitive is it? i mean sensitive in terms of sources and methods and how we know where the generals are and how we know where their ships are, sure, butwh sensitive in wt it might mean for russia to know thatru we gave that informationo ukraineve given what ukraine ha done with that information once they got it?
sensitive in terms of worrying about what that might provoke from russia? how sensitive is that anymore? do we need to recalibrate that, our sense of that? i mean today, president biden signed a new leend lease act for ukraine. if you remember the phrase from sophomore year history class,or lend lease is what fdr called it in 1941 when he came up with a way for the u.s. to go whole hog in arming the british and arming our allies to fight against the nazis. fdr was in a white house correspondents dinner march 1941 and he said, these plain people, civilianseo as well as soldiers andvi sailors and airmen, women and girls as well as men and boys, they are fighting in the front line of civilization at this moment,fr and they are holdingt, that line with fortitude. he said, the british people need ships from america, they will getsh ships. they need wplanes, from americ they will get planes. they need tanks, and guns and
ammunition and supplies of all kinds from america, they will get tanks and guns and ammunition and supplies of all kinds and he said it to deafening applause at the white house correspondentsde dinner t spring ofen 1941. that was the lend-lease act in 1941. that wasle fdr fighting against the nazis in 1941 and how he explained to the press what it would mean. to sign the lend-lease act to empower our allies to fight with everything that they had but everything that we had to push germany back. that was lend-lease. that's the only thing lend-lease has ever been. this year, they literally just updated the language of lend-lease fromla 1941. so now, instead of being for the british people, it isin for the ukrainian , people, and it is 2022. and president biden signed it today. and for everything that is wrong in washington, and everything that is dissimilar and discordant and wrong between the two parties, lend-lease 2022 for
the people of ukraine, it passed the united states senate you in and of themselvesly. it passedunit the house -- pass the senate afterunanimously and passed the house almost unanimouslyse with only the trumpiest republicans not. and if it is a sensitive thing for the united states to be helping ukraine against russia too much, if we're worried about what putin mitt do if we help ukraine too much, honestly, we're helping ukraine a lot, and more and more all the time. and more and more in putin's face all the time. and using the kind of language and historical allegory that putin wants for himself, that isn't working for him. and today, given the chance, givenen the best chance he'll er have,l to triple down today an declare that all bets are off and it is not some special operation it is a real war and russia is all in, today he did nothing of the sort. today, he did nothing. why is that?
and what does that tell us about howel risky our own behavior is right now? what does that tell us about what a reasonable expectation should be about what russia will do in response to our actions to help ukraine? what does that tell us about what else can be done by us, by everybody else in the world who wants to help them, to help ukraine win this and end this? joining us now is david, the editor of the new yorker, and also a former moscow correspondent for the "washington post" and won a pulitzer prize for a book he wrote based on his time there, which is called "lennon's tomb, the last days of thele soviet empire," thanks for being here. >> thank you. >> i'm asking those questions in that introduction tonight, because i honestly don't know whatly the answer to them is bui feel like our assumptions are getting a little wobbly, our expectations about putin's behavior, not just towards ukraine but towards us are starting to be rdmismatched wit what we're seeing from him in
reality. do you think that's fair? >>fr i think it is very fair. put it this way. i woke up deliberately at 4:30 in the morning, hoping to read in realtime or watch putin's speechch on red square, as you pointed out, in your excellent summation of what happened today and what's going on, may 9th is always a big deal, because it is the great national unifying narrative. the victory in what's called the great patriotic war. as important as it is here, it is in many ways much more important in soviet history and even in themu post-soviet space. he said nothing. you have it exactly right. i kept, i read immediately in russia and in english, my russian is lagging, i read it on the kremlin web site, and i kept waiting for it and it never came. it never came. and what we found there was just theer resuscitation, the
repetition of what i would call a salvation narrative. he can't possible in real terms why he invaded ukraine. he invaded ukraine because he wants to battle the west, and u.s., resentment, invaded ukraine because it was going fitfully, more democratic, more and more away from russia and more and more away from his conception of some form of modern imperial russia. so he needs a vocabulary for that to relate to the russian people. and it's not there. so that's where the invention of nazis comes from. yes, there are people that are, there are some people who are on the far right, nationalists in ukraine, but to call this a national trend, or to not fail to see, or to fail to see that nationalisme comes from somewhere, is to -- or the idea
that putin has a problem with far right nationalism. >> yes. >> all over the place in russia. including in his own house. and he's losing it. he's losing it. and you know, i thought i was fullkn of news here coming, havg read russian web site, all about lenta.ru and all of the amazing things that went up and you obviously had it, and it made me thircht of a different time. in 1968, the soviet union invaded czechoslovakia to put down what is called, and what happened? nothing happened. right? in soviet terms. seven or eight very brave people, including somebody pushing a baby carriage, came to red square, and took out banners and said czechoslovakia, we are with you, we are against this invasion. within a minute, within a
minute, predictably, kgb officer, obviously guarding red square, on the people, beat the hell out of them and most were arrested and went off to prison. many, many years ago. that was a one minute long, almostut invisible protest, andt him menace repercussions with the dissident movement, inspired by, it became more and more overtly, andre softa, leader of the dissident movement. it is hard to know what instances like this, like this demonstration on lenta.ru, incredible bravery, or that woman who some weeks ago, ran behind the tv presenter and also -- >> during the nightly news, yes. >> incredible. and my point, the presumption is that everybody is for this war, because everybody listens to
propaganda television and that's that. i thinkth as time goes by, becae people are not stupid, because mothers are receiving phone their sons at the front, because casualties are buildinglt up, and the economic repercussions are making themselves known, that the ability to keep all this information out of the public consciousness will recede, and his problems will not be only military, his problems will not only be just his confrontation with the west, but i think it is entirely possible that as his theory gross, so to will his problems. >> that should change expectations in what he believes he can ask the people for or he can telleo the russian people they're about to deliver. >> whatus we're waiting this morning was a big mobilization. >> so that people who are wh reservist, kidding all over the
country, young men from all over the cocountry, first of all, th would f have enormous repercussions, it would heighten alarm among the general population about what's at stake in ukraine, why is this taking so long, what is this special military operation, it seems a lot more seriouson than that, a nonsense begins to corrode. you know, one of the information things thatof happened this wee is an awful guy on russian television, and he runs some spectacular propaganda television shows, and he was sent to mariupol to kind of lead the propaganda, imagine tucker carlson being sent to, i don't know, charlottesville, to whip up fervor in a kind of civil war. that's the move. and it doesn't really work. it doesn't really work. >> he was supposed to inspire the people of mariupol to get
excited about russia invading them? >> well, and also to be filmed and slow it to russia. we're liberators. >> this understanding about how this, what the room in which putin feels he can maneuver, even if he has, as you say losing it, i think will change the american calibration on how muchth we can maneuver and how may respond. and i believe we're only starting to figure it out. david remnick the editor of "the new yorker" the best magazine in the english language and the author of the pulitzerh prize winning book "lennon's tomb, the last days of soviet union," thank you for getting up at 4:00 the morning and reading the speech. good to see you. we'll be right back. good to see you. we'll be right back. ratings and. and when you book and pay throug you're covered by our happiness check out angi.com today. angi... and done.
(woman) oh. oh! hi there. you're jonathan, right? the 995 plan! and when you book and pay throug you're covered by our happiness yes, from colonial penn. your 995 plan fits my budget just right. excuse me? aren't you jonathan from tv, that 995 plan? yes, from colonial penn. i love your lifetime rate lock. that's what sold me. she thinks you're jonathan, with the 995 plan. -are you? -yes, from colonial penn. we were concerned we couldn't get coverage, but it was easy with the 995 plan. -thank you. -you're welcome. i'm jonathan for colonial penn life insurance company. this guaranteed acceptance whole life insurance plan is our #1 most popular plan. it's loaded with guarantees. if you're age 50 to 85, $9.95 a month buys whole life insurance with guaranteed acceptance. you cannot be turned down for any health reason. there are no health questions and no medical exam. and here's another guarantee you can count on: guaranteed lifetime coverage.
your insurance can never be cancelled. just pay your premiums. guaranteed lifetime rate lock. your rate can never increase. pardon me, i'm curious. how can i learn more about this popular 995 plan? it's easy. just call the toll-free number for free information. (soft music) ♪

hi, this is fortenberry and out in my pick-up truck with our dog pippen and this is my wife, and we do this every now and
then. i wanted to send you a video because we do have something hard to tell you. >> we do this every now and then. whenever i have to report that i have been indicted. and that was nebraska republican congressman jeff fortenberry last october, and he had to tell us, he piled his wife and dog in the nice pick-up truck was the fact he had been indicted on felony charges in federal court. he was charged with lying to the fbi about illegal foreign contributions to his campaign. despite those charges, he vowed to press on, vowed to stay in office. it will not surprise you to learn that donald trump immediately issued a statement of support for representative fortenberry, as he does with for all republican politicians indicted for corruption and unfortunately trump was no longer president by the time he issued his statement of support so he couldn't pardon him as he
did all of the other indicted republicans of the trump era. three months after the initial ad, mr. fortenberry, piled his wife into the pick-up truck again and announced that never mind the felony federal corruption charges, he would be running for re-election and his trial got under way in march and the first sitting member of congress to stand trial in over two decades but a jury convicted him on three felony count, they only deliberated for two hours, and then, and only then, did republican leadership finally give him a shove out the door. turns out you can't simultaneously be in prison and in congress apparently. that is the line now, a dotted line, and a fine one, but that's the line. because of jeff fortenberry's recent turn through the federal courts, his recent conviction, voters in nebraska first congressional district are going to the polls tomorrow. there will be a primary election to nominate a new republican to
run for the seat vacated by their recently-convicted congressman. and that is not good for the republican party. i mean it's never good for a party to have to be fighting to retain a seat in congress when they have lost it under those circumstances. right? when your party's previous guy can't run because he has to go to the bar hotel. that's not good for your party. on the same ballot, in the same state, in the same election tomorrow, the trump-endorsed republican candidate for nebraska governor is a guy who has been accused of groping by eight different women including a republican state senator. nufrm nevertheless felt so strongly about supporting this guy that he went and held a rally for him last weekend in nebraska, and the guy is totally innocent and he called the groping allegations from eight different women, he called them despicable and called the allegations despicable, not the alleged behavior, so tomorrow's not a good day fort republican
party in nebraska, no matter how they do in the polls. but it's not just nebraska. there's more. there's much more. to a point that it's getting weird. and that's next. stay with us. weird. and that's next. stay with us with angi, you can connect with and see ratings and reviews. and when you book and pay throug you're covered by our happiness check out angi.com today. angi... and done.

everyone remembers the moment they heard, “you have cancer.” how their world stopped... ...and when they found a way to face it. for some,... ...this is where their keytruda story begins. keytruda—a breakthrough immunotherapy that may treat certain cancers. one of those cancers is advanced melanoma, which is a kind of skin cancer where keytruda may be used when your melanoma has spread or cannot be removed by surgery. keytruda helps your immune system fight cancer... ...but can also cause your immune system to attack healthy parts of your body. this can happen during or after treatment and may be severe and lead to death. see your doctor right away if you have cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, diarrhea, severe stomach pain or tenderness, severe nausea or vomiting, headache, light sensitivity, eye problems, irregular heartbeat, extreme tiredness, constipation, dizziness or fainting, changes in appetite, thirst, or urine,
confusion or memory problems, muscle pain or weakness, fever, rash, itching, or flushing. these are not all the possible side effects. tell your doctor about all your medical conditions, including immune system problems, or if you've had an organ transplant, had or plan to have a stem cell transplant, or have had radiation to your chest area or a nervous system condition. today, keytruda is fda-approved to treat 16 types of advanced cancer, and is being studied in hundreds of clinical trials exploring ways to treat even more types of cancer. it's tru. keytruda from merck. see the different types of cancer keytruda is approved to treat at keytruda.com, and ask your doctor if keytruda can be part of your story.
let's see if you spot a theme here. in missouri, the field for the republican candidate for u.s. senator in missouri and includes the state's disgraced former governor eric greitens. now the reason republican eric greitenss is the former governor
of missouri is because he was forced to resign amid multiple scandals including allegations that he forced a woman into a nonconsensual sexual encounter it, and photographed it and blackmailed her about it, and that's why he was forced out of the governship in missouri and since decided he is over it and the people of missouri should be, too, and he has jumped into the u.s. senate rait race in that state as well. since jumping into the senate race, he has faced new allegations from his ex-wife and physically abused both her and their children, wow, things like this just keep coming up with this guy, nevertheless, an internal poll for greitens' campaign shared with reporters today reportedly shows him leading the republican primary field for missouri senate, if you believe that poll, with the guy, with that record, the leading candidate for the united states senate from missouri of that's missouri. how about georgia? the leading republican candidate
for u.s. senate in georgia is this guy. herschel walker. walker's ex-wife accused him of abusive and extremely threatening behavior during their marriage and holding a pistol to her head and threatening to blow her brains out, according to documents obtained after the divorce, medical walker's ex wife secured a protector order against him and repeatedly called her sister and father threatening again that he was going to kill her. that is the leading republican party candidate for senate in georgia. how about the great state of pennsylvania? not only is their leading republican candidate for governor was a part of the mob that attacked the u.s. capitol on january 6th but the guy he endorsed for lieutenant governor has been ordered by a judge to tay away from his own home after his wife obtained a protective order over claims of physical and mental abuse and accuses of
stalking her at work and screaming at her and threatening her by the shirt and threatening to kilt family dog. okay okay pennsylvania republicans. how about ohio? republican voters in the ninth congressional district has been getting attention over the past few days because they have the republican candidate from one congressional seat to another guy at the january 6th riot. in the seventh congressional district, a former donald trump staffer won that republican primary a few days ago even after he was publicly accused of assault by his ex-girlfriend. and in his case, the ex-girlfriend making the allegations of physical assault was the trump white house press sec, a sen ormember of the trump white house says he physically abused her. doesn't seem to matter. trump endorsed him. he won his primary with 70% of the vote. and i know this sounds like i'm seeming hyperbolic or rounding up for the next worst thing when
you line all of these guys up but honestly that's all of the facts, we haven't gotten to this headline out of indiana, not zwerting, a real headline, man accused of killing his wife wins republican primary from jail. the dude is in jail, on charges of murdering his wife and he won his republican primary. for a municipal board in indiana. he will on the ballot in november unless he is convicted of murdering his wife. and being in jail on those charges, wasn't a problem. if the republican party was a private company their hr department would be blowing through all of their overtime just this week. you know, things like this happen from time to time. we definitely get people acutioned -- accused of doing horrible things who nevertheless end up rising in politic, right? but this is an unusually dense concentration of them for this cycle for the republicans party.
how many of these do we need before we start calling it this year's pattern? and it is absolutely stunning that the republican party is fielding all of these men accused of all of these horrible things involving women, that that is happening in such an incredible concentration, while the republican party this year is set to be running in the context of banning abortion, right? in the wake of the leaked draft supreme court draft majority ruling overturning roe v. wade, the senate republican leader mitch mcconnell says they will look at a federal abortion ban if the republicans are lucky enough to take over congress. and in louisiana, ban abortion and declare anybody who has had abortion to have committed murder. if you had an abortion in louisiana, you will be considered to have had committed murder. louisiana is a state in which murder is punishable by the death penalty. so there's sort of rushing to the end of the story with that one, louisiana republicans.
mississippi's republican governor, under questioning by cnn anchor jake tap ther weekend, he would not rule out that mississippi republicans after they get abortion ban, they might move on to banning contraception. it might be. don't want to talk about it yet. and in arizona, a republican u.s. senate candidate backed up by billionaire trump pal peter thiel says if he is elected senator, he will vote to confirm judges who will not just vote to overturn roe, he said he will only vote for judicial nominees who pledge to overturn the ruling that guarantees access to contraception. that's a litmus test. marcia black burn denounced that supreme court ruling protecting access to contraception. as did all of the republican candidates for attorney general in michigan this year. they all apparently think that the government should be able to ban contraception and we need to get rid of the supreme court precedent that prevents the government from being able it do
that. it's not like there's been a weird little outbreak of radicalism in one corner of the country here, right? i mean this is a very stark thing. and it is happening in republican primaries. in every state in the country. with the context and the backdrop being so stark and so radical, a prag mattic question. say a moderate democrat in a moderate purple state and that's the kind of radicalism on the right, you would expect in terms of political science and math you would have an advantage over that kind of extremism and radicalism coming from the republican party, but it is in the details, how do you handle that confrontation with that kind of a represent republican party on a practical level. it seem likes it should hurt them but it it is going to hurt them, it will be the democrats who will have to use it against the republicans in their campaigns, a practical questions that democrats do that,
campaigns do not run themselves, there are choices that need to be made about how and where and when to do this. one very moderate, very bipartisan-minded democratic senator in a very tough re-election fight has just fired the first shot of this new battle. and we can see how she is approaching it. she joins us live here next. stay with us. g it she joins us live here next. stay with us



here's candice... who works from home, and then works from home. but she can handle pickup, even when her bladder makes a little drop-off. because candice has poise, poise under pressure and poise in her pants. it takes poise. and it's easier than ever to get your projects done right. with angi, you can connect with and see ratings and reviews. and when you book and pay throug you're covered by our happiness check out angi.com today. angi... and done.   three men.
one agenda. mitch mcconnell's decades long crusade to criminalize abortion. >> a key architect of new hampshire's abortion ban who says he will bring new hampshire's abortion ban to washington. don says new hampshire's abortion ban is quote better than nothing but claims it does not go far enough. and kevin smith says we are so close to ending abortion once and for all. >> that is their agenda. they all support a new hampshire abortion ban and now with roe v. wade on the verge of being overturned, these three men and their one agenda. a woman's fundamental right of freedom, hangs in the balance. >> a brand new political ad targeting the three republican men who are competing to be the republican party's nominee for the united states senate in new hampshire and all three competing to run against the senator whose campaign started
running that ad, and the fight over abortion will be nationwide this year, given what the supreme court is about to do on roe v. wade. but that fight will not just be a fight between conservatives on one side and fire-breathing progressives on the other. senator maggie hassen is a moderate. she is a work force senator known for being fiercely bipartisan, a legitimate centrist in a world where that is not supposed to be possible. georgetown university school of public policy ranked her the most bipartisan senator in the united states senate. but this fight is joined, including by senators like maggie hasan, senator hassan joins us live, a real pleasure to have you with us tonight. thanks for making time. >> thanks for having me on,rachel. >> i think for a long time, we have imagined the fight over a post roe america being one that would be fought between sorts of the left and the right clearly defined. and that this would be something where it would be sort of predictable to find the
combatants here. it feels like now it is upon us, those assumptions have been proven wrong and this is a state that will be in every state in the country in every race and it seems largely just to be between the two parties. that's how i see it. i wanted to ask if you see it that same way. >> well, you know, in new hampshire, we have a strong bipartisan tradition of supporting a woman's right to make her own fundamental health care decision, her right essentially to freedom. and so it is very, very concerning that extremists in our state capital from inserted an abortion ban into our state budget last year, and now, one of them is one of my opponents in the senate race, the republicans are eager to come to washington and help mitch mcconnell fulfill what has clearly been his goal for decades, which is to not only overturn roe v. wade, but now it seems pass an abortion ban, a national abortion ban.
this is an issue where the vast majority of americans across party lines support roe v. wade and support codifying it. so this is really about which party will listen to voters and up hold their values and protect fundamental freedom force every american, regardless of political party. >> we look at some of the polling today in new hampshire on this issue, and in new hampshire, just as in the country, that public opinion does line up the way you just described. there are strong majorities in new hampshire, just as there are nationwide, for leaving in place the protections of ro ex. it really doesn't map on to our national political party divisions. there aren't pro-life republicans anymore. there aren't republicans who are arguing for moderation or even slowing down in terms of what the supreme court is about to do. should we take it from this new ad released from your campaign
that you think this will be a central issue in your re-election effort this fall. >> the right of people to make their own personal decision, their right to bodily autonomy is foundational to everything else and as we talk about the ways we come together, to address the challenges we need to address, including lowering price, and helping people afford prescription drugs or child care, they need to know they have representation in washington that is actually listening to them. and what we see in my race and i think what we're seeing around the country on this issue is candidates for senate who are wildly out of step with where their constituents are, that is certainly the case of the opponents that i have on the republican side, when it comes to this issue of a woman's fundamental right to make her own choices, to chart her own path, including her own economic path. so i think what you're going to see is all around the country,
this real concern about how out of touch the republicans are on this fundamental and key issue, which raises the issues for voters, if they won't listen to you on this, are they going to listen to you on anything, on the need to lower the cost of prescription drugs and stand up to big pharma, or lower the price of gas, by standing up to big oil, and this is about a fundamental right of protecting our freedom, and recognizing that it's a republican party, if the republican party is willing to go after a woman's fundamental freedom, if they're willing to roll back the rights of half of the population, will they be willing to stand up for anyone's freedom? and what that does to our democracy is a critical concern to my constituents and i think americans everywhere. >> new hampshire democratic u.s. senator maggie hassan who has a difficult re-election fight ahead of her, this year, senator, it is always a pleasure to have a little bit of time for
us tonight. >> thanks for having me. >> i mcsuppose when i was trying to make the -- i misspoke when i was trying to make the face that there aren't any pro life republicans, pro choice republicans, which is exactly backwards which i shouldn't do because i'm supposed to be a pro, but i fail all the time. sorry. we'll be right back. o, but i fae sorry. we'll be right back.
(woman) oh. oh! hi there. you're jonathan, right? the 995 plan! yes, from colonial penn. your 995 plan fits my budget just right. excuse me? aren't you jonathan from tv, that 995 plan? yes, from colonial penn. i love your lifetime rate lock. that's what sold me. she thinks you're jonathan, with the 995 plan. -are you? -yes, from colonial penn.
we were concerned we couldn't get coverage, but it was easy with the 995 plan. -thank you. -you're welcome. i'm jonathan for colonial penn life insurance company. this guaranteed acceptance whole life insurance plan is our #1 most popular plan. it's loaded with guarantees. if you're age 50 to 85, $9.95 a month buys whole life insurance with guaranteed acceptance. you cannot be turned down for any health reason. there are no health questions and no medical exam. and here's another guarantee you can count on: guaranteed lifetime coverage. your insurance can never be cancelled. just pay your premiums. guaranteed lifetime rate lock. your rate can never increase. pardon me, i'm curious. how can i learn more about this popular 995 plan? it's easy. just call the toll-free number for free information. (soft music) ♪
what's it like having xfinity internet? it's beyond gig-speed fast. so gaming with your niece, has never felt more intense. hey what does this button do? no, don't!
we're talking supersonic wi-fi. three times the bandwidth and the power to connect hundreds of devices at once. that's powerful. couldn't said it better myself. you just did. unbeatable internet from xfinity. made to do anything so you can do anything. whoa.   if you record thisshowon your dvr, if you have a tv and dvr set up to record therachelmaddowevery night at 9:00 p.m. eastern, personal thank you, you have kept me going all these years thank you and i need you to do another thing. keep the dvr set can where your record therachelmaddowshow, and you have to add dvr, prime, and the whole team is working to produce theshow, but in addition to every monday i'm here, big news events including
some that might arrive on short notice so you need to set your dvr to record every night at 9:00 p.m.showwhich means setting it to record therachelmaddowshowand msnbc prime. that's going to do it for me for tonight. "way too early" with jonathan lemire is up next.   more death and destruction in ukraine. as russian missiles hit the black sea port city of odesa. and at one point, forcing the european council president who was visiting into a bomb shelter. this, as president biden puts new pressure on congress to approve his nassive request for ukraine aid. we'll tell you what that means for the covid relief bill the democrats say is also a priority. plus, inflation remains a top concern for voters heading into the midterms and today, the president is expected to announce his plan to lower costs. we'll have a preview.   and the fight over