so our politicians in hungary, australia, canada. it take advantage of those people. how big is that worldwide? as a 10%? i'm not sure. is it larger in the united states? probably. are they going to coalesce around this over the next few weeks and months, i would guess almost certainly, yes. >> and collins, thank you as always. that's all in on this thursday night. therachelmaddowshowstarts with ali velshi. good evening, ali. ali velshi. good evening, ali. >> there was a chilling conversation. we'll see you tomorrow night. thanks for joining us this hour. thanks to your home for joining us this hour, i'm in i'm in budapest, the capital of budapest. the capital of hungry. hungry over 150 miles east of where we are, is hungary's border with ukraine, where i was last. that entire border is only 84 miles long, but nearly 1 million ukrainian refugees have come over that border, fleeing the russian invasion of their own country. it is only a few decades ago
that russian forces were right here, in budapest. in 1956, when hungary was under the control of the soviet union they tanks rolled into budapest to put down a democratic revolution in the city. the crackdown was successful, and brutal. some 2500 hungarians, and 700 soviet soldiers were killed. nearly a quarter million hungarians, fleeing the country. that whole thing was over in one week. hungary's democratic aspirations is waiting until the fall of the soviet union, more than 30 years later. but, not all soviet military interventions were that short, or that successful. most famously, soviet tanks rolled into afghanistan in 1979, and ended up bogged down for a decade. the war was a disaster for afghanistan, where something like 2 million afghan civilians were killed, but it was a debacle for the soviet
military. they lost nearly 15,000 soviet troops over ten years. ultimately, having to give up, and retreat. the soviet union, collapsing two years later, in part, because of the unpopularity, and cost, of that war. so, here is something worth considering. if that, afghanistan, was a military catastrophe, a military defeat contributing to the fall of a global superpower, 15,000 soldiers killed over a decade, what would we call an invasion in which russia has lost half of that number, in just three weeks? that is what american intelligence officials say have happened, according to new reporting by the new york times. more than 7000 russian troops, killed in ukraine, since the invasion began. that, they say, as a conservative estimate. now, if those american intelligence estimates are accurate. then, of course, we have no way
to independently verify them. that would be a staggering number of casualties for russians forces to have sustained in three weeks. 7000 is the number of marines killed in 36 days of fighting, on evil jima. one of the fiercest battles of world war ii. 7000, greater than the number of american troops, in 20 years in iraq, and afghanistan, combined. it is not just a casualty numbers of point to a russian army in disarray. today, it is echoing what american defense officials have been saying. the russian invasion of ukraine, largely stalled on all fronts, as they fend off constant, ukrainian counterattacks. for russian generals, reportedly, killed in the fighting. the general say, to maybe pushing closer to the front lines, to try to boost flagging morale among the russian troops, making the more vulnerable to attack themselves. the new york times reports, quote, to american military officials say, many russian
general officials are talk on unsecured phones, and radios. in at least one instance, they said, ukrainians intercepted and generals call, geo located it, and attacked his location, killing him, and his staff. then, there is russia's loss of costly military hardware. the wall street journal with this report. ukraine has become a graveyard for russian tanks, with analysts saying, this is likely the highest number of tanks destroyed in such a short period since world war ii. now, all of this bad news having repercussions in moscow. russian news resources of voted that vladimir putin had two of his top intelligence officials under house arrest. a russian security expert tells the times, the two men were interrogated for providing poor intelligence, ahead of the invasion of ukraine. meanwhile, the russian military is reporting it so desperate for new soldiers, recruiters are targeting, and pressuring, central asian immigrants, working in russia.
basically, saying, if they want russian citizenship, they must sign up to fight in ukraine. that reporting is from the moscow times. an independent russian newspaper, as of last week, is now operating out of amsterdam, because of the kremlin's media crackdown. russia's military troubles with a theme of a new video message tonight, from ukrainian president zelenskyy. he craned, ukrainian forces have killed 13,000 russian soldiers, and taken thousands of prisoners. speaking in russian, he addressed the mothers of the russian soldiers, telling them, ukraine never wanted all of these dead bodies, and prisoners. quote, we did not want this for. all we want is peace. and for you to more than we are afraid of the government. all of this bad news for russian military, isn't bad news for ukraine. that is the stalled ground invasion, and heavy losses among ground troops, have made putin turn to the skies to attack ukrainian cities. western officials told the
times, the heavy arsenal, and aerial bombardment of the cities, including residential buildings, hospitals and, schools, is serving to camouflage the poor performance on the ground. nbc news, chief foreign correspondent, richard engel, at the site of one of those aerial attacks today. >> russia has, clearly, resorted to siege warfare. this was one of the biggest food storage facilities in the entire country. 50,000 tons of food was here, all burned. it's impossible that this was an accident, because it was bombed, twice, and then another food storage facility, a mile from here, was also attacked. >> do you have a message? >> in a hospital bed nearby, volodymyr was injured while trying to salvage food from the burned out warehouses. >> i want this work to be over, so that i can see my family, he said. down the hall's katerina, who sold milk, and yogurt, at an open market. she was in a basement, going
outside for a moment to wash a blanket, when a russian shell exploded. it tore off her leg, and shrapnel went through her back, and into alone. >> before, i had a house, and a job. now i am disabled, with no home. why? for what? she asked. she began to curse russia. >> one potential glimmer of hope today. yesterday, we reported on the theater in the eastern city of mariupol, being used as a shelter for as many as 1000 civilians. in the front, and the back, from the sky, you could see the word, children, written in russian. big enough to be visible from the sky. yet, russia bombed the theater anyway, reducing it to rubble. local officials had feared the worst, but today, as they have been able to begin clearing the debris, officials say, survivors are emerging, a live, from the basement bomb shelter, which appears to have withstood the attack. it is unclear how many people were inside,, norwood condition they are in. but, at least some of the civilian sheltering there,
reportedly, made it through the bombing, relatively unscathed. that theater, also, the point of departure for convoys of cars, which had been fleeing mariupol, in recent days. the city council says, 30,000 people had escaped, but hundreds of thousands remain chapped in that city, with no heat, electricity, or water, as a russian bombardment continues. this afternoon, the united nations security council, holding an emergency meeting on the worsening humanitarian crisis in ukraine. here was the u.s. ambassador to the united nations, linda thomas-greenfield. >> over 3 million refugees have fled the country. creating a devastating, humanitarian crisis, felt around the world. 43 hospitals have been attacked by russia. 43 hospitals, and health facilities. there is only one way, one way, to end this madness. president putin, stop the
killing. withdraw your forces. leave ukraine, once and for all. >> as of tonight, it does not look like putin's forces are leaving ukraine, anytime soon. joining us now, from ukraine, from lviv, nbc news cal perry. good evening, my friend. the russians seem to be upping their air attacks, after these losses, and the stalling of their ground troops. what more can you tell us about, that tonight? >> i think that is, absolutely, what is happening. if you talk about military incompetence, certainly, we see that play out in some places. it doesn't take great military strength to massacre civilians. that is what we see. room talk about the russian death toll, we hear from the deputy to the president, earlier tonight, and she said that she was working with the red cross, to return 14,000 bodies of dead russian soldiers. we thought that number sounds high, but then as you stated, the president, a few hours ago,
said there was 13,000 bodies of dead russian soldiers that he, basically, didn't expect to have, and they don't know what to do with. we had an indication this was coming. when you look at the situation in kharkiv, and we've spoken a lot about 80% of that city has, basically, been shelled, there was a market on fire, and this is the most dramatic video of the day. we knew of the bodies of civilians, being in the streets, but also, that there were the bodies of russian soldiers, that have been left in the streets for days. that is a sign that the military campaign is not going the way the russian military thought it would. if they are advancing into cities, taking such heavy losses, that they would have to withdraw from those cities, and shelled them, leaving the bodies of russian troops behind, again, is an indication that the ukrainian defense, ukrainian defensive positions, many set up by the civilian defense forces, are not only standing their ground, but starting to inflict heavy casualties. the >> move focused a lot of our attention on eastern ukraine, where much of this fighting started. what is going on in the
southern part of the country? >> so, in the south, you had the situation developing all along the black sea, which is, as these mayors are saying, hell on earth. if you start in the far east, you have the cities, like mariupol, which are being bombarded, and are being bombed to rubble, and the rubble is being bombed. if you move from east to west, you will come across the city of kherson, which is the first city to fall. in many of these cities, we see eyewitnesses, and 2008, in the war in georgia, which is the induction, and kidnapping of mayors. this is a strategy that the russians used as well, where they will kidnap these mayors, local officials, and put in figureheads. if you continue to move west, along the black sea towns, and along the coastline, you come across the city of odessa. in the last 24 hours, odessa has been run by naval ships at the russian navy is using. it has residents are, on alert, putting in defensive position, sandbagging much of the city, civilians are starting to flee.
the concern is that odessa will be the last city that will be shelled, wrong, and we will see a siege laid to. if that is true, and odessa falls, really, russia will control the black sea cities, and the ports. they will have created a land bridge that we have been talking about, running from the eastern provinces, through the black sea, and denies ukraine see access. it seems like that is the way the military campaign is starting to play out. >> of course, the city of odessa, very close to the border with moldova. we have seen a dramatic increase in the number of ukrainian refugees going into moldova. in fact, higher than the number of people who have come here to hungary now, which was in the second position. cal, stay safe, as always, thank you, in lviv ukraine. as i mentioned at the top of theshow, american and british officials are now saying, russian forces have suffered significant casualties, and setback, since the war began. as we were tubs putin today, the senate in four said
casualty rate, including dead and wounded, for a single unit, renders it unable to carry out combat related tasks. with more than 150,000 russian troops now involved in the war in ukraine, russian casualties when including the estimated 14,000 to 21,000 injured, are near that level. joining us now, one of the people by lined on that report. eric schmidt, a senior writer, covering terrorism, and national security, so thank you for being with us. help me understand the different claims, and what they have died. we have claims from ukrainians that were higher than what this estimate, that you are reporting on is. how do we determine the accuracy of the u.s. intelligence community is saying? that is somewhere around 7000 troops in the first three weeks of fighting? >> these are difficult numbers to come by. you have to be sure. you have the russians coming with very low numbers, in the
high hundreds figures, then you have the ukrainian somewhere around 13, or 14 left, and are well inflated. the pentagon are looking at those, numbers of again other social media claims, and they are looking at battle damage assessment and that's for the damage done to tanks, to armored vehicles, and other things that troops are estimating, by the number of troops that they know, and in these number of different vehicles that are extrapolating from helping that estimate as well. even pentagon officials say, the 7000 dollar figure, while conservative, isn't imprecise one. they are searching for better ways to get a handle on it. but that is the number that they are going with right now. as you said in the open air report, quite staggering. >> it is staggering. we also heard between three, and four generals have been killed. an investigation into one, is whether or not they were using an unsecured cell phone, or radio, that allowed them to be geo targeted.
these kinds of losses and was otherwise kind of lost before this invasion. the one thing they were off on, is a speed in which russia has been overtaken with ukraine. it is just unfolding unlike anything anyone expected. >> the russians, by all accounts, could indicate to the capital, within one or two days. basically, take over the leadership, and then take over most of the country in the next week or two. obviously, that has not happened for a couple of big reasons. one, is the fierce resistance they met from the ukrainians, as your report has documented right now. the other is that they overestimated their own capabilities going into ukraine. a serious logistic problem. a shortage of fuel. a food and spare parts. a fear of widespread reports, and cause scripts. young experienced troops, who were not told they were going into a war zone. basically, walking away from some vehicles, and these convoys we've heard, that of installed into kyiv. it's a collection of errors on
the logistical side, and also, a flawed campaign, and the ground forces. not releasing it up with the air forces. in the normal way that you've had to battle. so, what they have had to do is resort to the tactics that you're earlier report mentioned. stand back, and pummel the cities with artillery, long range missiles, and aerial bombing. >> biden, to the people who are not trained, and understanding military techniques, it is hard to understand. really, this means, you can't be bombing, or shelling a city, or shelling locations where your troops are located. so, the ground troops are not able to do with they're supposed to do. now, what we are seeing, as cal was reporting, russian troops retreating from those positions, sometimes, leaving did russians holders behind, will they call an air support, which bombards an area. it's an inefficient way of doing things, to say the least. >> that's right. it's a brutal way of doing things. what is happening, is on the
outskirts of the cities you mentioned, the ukrainian forces, or basically, fighting the numerically superior, and technologically superior, russian forces, rowley to a standstill. rather than advancing further, and a rain most of his cities, the russians have to stand back, and use the one women they have a lot of, which is artillery. weapons of terror, at this point, to force the civilian population to flee. damaging much of the cities, and basically, trying to take over from there. what we haven't seen yet is urban combat. which is the russians trying to get inside of the streets of the city's. that is where things will get bloody, and bad. even worse than we've seen right now. >> in the few instances where we have seen, that however, it seems, unofficially, that the ukrainians had an advantage. and places like kyiv, where they have retreated to areas that they control, inside of the city, to draw all russians in. it seems to result in confusion,
obviously. the russian soldiers do not know the landscape, or the territory as well. it becomes an advantage for the ukrainian forces. >> the ukrainians know the terrain, and they're fighting on the home turf, and they're highly motivated to defend their homeland, and with russian morale, it is constructed troop forces, all the way to these general officers that you mentioned. it is somewhat disarray right now, and not really fighting for a cause that they believe in, where is in, they were rallied by presidents ellen ski, and fighting unexpectedly hard. they are hanging in there, again, and they have seemed to last with one of the strongest in the world. up against ukraine right now, it is a tough fight all around. >> there is so much more on that important reporting. i just hope all of our viewers read it, so they get an understanding of where things stand, militarily, in this battle. eric schmidt, a senior writer covering terrorism, and national security, for the new york times. thank you for your time tonight,
eric. vladimir putin was dealt another blow today, when is pakistan, a close ally to russia, broke away, called for an immediate end to the war in ukraine. now, uzbekistan is the second age or country, following kazakhstan, splitting earlier. a member from the ukrainian parliament, about her view of how things are going. stay with us. oing stay with us and this is the sound of better breathing. fasenra is a different kind of asthma medication. it's not a steroid or inhaler. fasenra is an add-on treatment for asthma driven by eosinophils. it's one maintenance dose every 8 weeks. it helps prevent asthma attacks, improve breathing, and lower use of oral steroids. nearly 7 out of 10 adults with asthma may have elevated eosinophils. fasenra is designed to target and remove them. fasenra is not a rescue medication or for other eosinophilic conditions.
fasenra may cause allergic reactions. get help right away if you have swelling of your face, mouth, and tongue, or trouble breathing. don't stop your asthma treatments unless your doctor tells you to. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection or your asthma worsens. headache and sore throat may occur. this is the sound of fasenra. ask your doctor about fasenra. [upbeat music playing] ♪♪ welcome to home sweet weathertech home. a place where dirt stays outside. and floors are protected. where standing is comfortable. and water never leaves a mark. it's spotless under the sink. and kids can be kids. order your american made products at weathertech.com. two weeks ago, ukrainian


parliament member, nina, tweeted a drawing by her young son. at the top of the picture he's written, no-fly zone. they said at the time, a drawing by my son, martin. he was nine years old, 11 seen him for seven days. when he asked me when they see me again, i started crying. when the bomb started to fall in kyiv, they sent a son to live in the western part of the country, for his own safety. each day, the war rages on, and
becomes more painful decisions. take for example, these images seen today, in the city where susana was born. and the city of kharkiv, which we've been talking about a lot. when one of the largest street markets, and all of europe, goes up in flames. the dark plumes of smoke, and in the eastern ukrainian city, ukrainians emergency services says, a massive shopping center caught fire after it was hit by russian shelling. it comes during a city of kharkiv, and said that the death toll is well over 1000 people. the more director says, he needs more body bags, in part because, quote, there are no coffins left in the city. local officials say, around 700,000 residents have fled kharkiv. for those who remain, the terror is ever-present. one person, who stayed behind, told the new york times, quote, kharkiv is not yet completely
destroyed, but we do hear constant shelling, constant bombing. given the opportunity to send their loved ones to safety, it is no wonder the ukrainian families are living apart. so while the pain of that is, no doubt, a measurable, today, there was a little bit of good news for you now, and her family. this week, she made the decision to briefly leave the city, and see her son martin. today, she shared this picture. when a two-day curfew was announced in kyiv, i took it as a sign that i should see my son in western ukraine. after all, i needed to see if he was doing his math. joining us now, you know, a member of the ukrainian parliament. we have many matters to discuss, and we are so grateful you are back with us. the most important question is, has martin been doing his math? >> well, it was time for me to come, and make sure he was doing more. there are the issues we need to discuss. >> that is a good answer, from a mother. bearing in mind, you don't want
to disclose, and we don't want to disclose, where you are. but can you describe the things you saw, as you journeyed west from kyiv, to reunite with your son? what was it like before you left and, what did you see on the way? >> in order to travel to western ukraine, i took a train. now all of the trains are free, so you just get to the train, you take the train, and you ask, can i get in? you get into the train, which are definitely crowded, but not as much as they were two weeks ago. they do not give you a precise schedule. they just tell you, we can be in the city, around this time, or 1 to 2 hours late. there are many people who are trying to evacuate, fully. there were many people with bags, and cats, and dogs, and everything. in some stations, which was a nice part of the journey, the train conductors would come to people and say, do you need something to eat? people were unsure if they should pay or not and, they
would say, these are all from volunteers, we just give food to the people who are traveling westward. so, that was a sad part of the journey, because i could see many people who were fleeing. there was a couple from kharkiv that i was traveling close to, and a few others from a blessed that we're trying to escape to western ukraine. when i came to western ukraine, it is safer, that other parts of ukraine, but they still get the sirens here. so martin, my son, when he saw me, he hug to me and said, mother, let me tell you a hilarious story. i said, go on. he said, yesterday, after school, we decided to go outside. we were putting on our clothes, and taking time to get ready, so on, so forth, and the second we got out the door, we hear the sirens, and we need to go back into the bunker. he was thinking this is funny,
because this happens a second they went outside, but i heard that and thought, oh my gosh, it was going through my son who knows that when you hear a siren, you need to get into the bunker. >> the people you are describing, who have been getting on those strains, we have been seeing, on this side, as they come into hungary, we've been seeing people coming from kharkiv, with their children, with their dogs, with what they're carrying. i do see the reaction of your hometown, to kharkiv, where russian forces are continuing to bomb the area, and is one of the largest street markets, which i'm sure you're familiar from. are you hearing from friends and family, and eastern ukraine, who are suffering the sum of apartment? >> this large market you are referring to, actually, my dad worked in that market, until 2013, when they moved to kyiv. so, i know that place, very
well. it was one of the huge list markets in kharkiv, it is a workplace for many people, it employed many people in kharkiv, and it's just one of the new attacks in kharkiv. my parents don't live there anymore, but we do have many friends, and family members who do. i was taken to my mother recently, and i asked her, have you've been in touch with those people? the majority of people had left the city, to leave the kharkiv region, somewhere in smaller villages, and there were some family members with distant relatives. it was showing ethnically russian, to family in russia, and she was very pro-russian. she was always saying, we need to be closer with russia, our, friends our brothers, i just don't understand what the fuss is. now, she is in the city, being
bombarded, and apparently, her whole view of the world, and her understanding of the world, just flew out the very first moment that they heard the bombs explode in kharkiv. she is extremely confused right now, but now, she is not saying the russians are our friends anymore, just like many other people heard another story, again, a friend of the friend situation, which was again, very pro-russian, now joining the territorial defense, and is ready to fight for the city. so those bombardments actually change the understanding of the situation so rapidly. this is one of the most patriotic for ukrainian city in ukraine right now. >> yes. you have got a father in this fight and a partner in this fight. you've got a son who understands what's air rates sirens are like. thank you for taking the time to be with us because in the midst of all this year also a
member the ukrainian parliament. we appreciate your time tonight. please stay safe. >> thank you. since the start of the invasion, about 15,000 russians have been arrested for protesting the putin regime, and while thousands are now fleeing the growing authoritarianism in russia, some dissidents are wrestling with their own failure to prevent more in ukraine. we will talk live with one of them next. l talk live with one o them next. them next. hey google. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ >> tech: does your windshield have a crack? trust safelite. >> tech vo: this customer had auto glass damage, but he was busy working from home... ...so he scheduled with safelite in just a few clicks.
we came to his house... ...then we got to work. we replaced his windshield and installed new wipers to protect his new glass, while he finished his meeting. let safelite come to you. >> man: looks great. thank you. >> tech: my pleasure. that's service on your time. schedule now. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ inner voice (furniture maker): i'm rubbing the arms of my chair... ...admiring the craft and detail i've put into it. that way i try to convince myself that i'm in control of the business side of my business. intuit quickbooks makes it easy for you to get a complete view of your business. so you can sit back and... ...relax. [zoom call] ...pivot... work bye. vacation hi! book with priceline. 'cause when you save more, you can “no way!” more. no wayyyy. no waaayyy! no way! [phone ringing] hm. no way! no way! priceline. every trip is a big deal. [♪♪] if you have diabetes, no way! it's important to have confidence in the nutritional drink you choose. try boost glucose control®. it's clinically shown to help manage blood sugar levels
and contains high quality protein to help manage hunger and support muscle health. try boost® today. we just moved. so there's millions of - dahlias in bloom. over nine acres. when we started, we grew a quarter of an acre. now i'm taking on new projects on the regular. there are millions of ways to make the most of your land. learn more at deere.com psoriasis really messes with you. try. hope. fail. no one should suffer like that. i started cosentyx®. five years clear. real people with psoriasis look and feel better with cosentyx. don't use if you're allergic to cosentyx. before starting get checked for tuberculosis. an increased risk of infection, some serious and a lowered ability to fight them may occur. tell your doctor about an infection or symptoms or if you had a vaccine or plan to. tell your doctor if your crohn's disease symptoms develop or worsen. serious allergic reaction may occur. best move i've ever made. ask your dermatologist about cosentyx®. what can i du with less asthma? with dupixent i can du more— ask your dermatologist
yardwork— teamwork— long walks. that's how you du more with dupixent, which helps prevent asthma attacks. dupixent is not for sudden breathing problems. it's an add-on-treatment for specific types of moderate-to-severe asthma that can improve lung function for better breathing in as little as two weeks. and can reduce, or even eliminate, oral steroids. and here's something important. dupixent can cause allergic reactions that can be severe. get help right away if you have rash, chest pain, worsening shortness of breath, tingling or numbness in your limbs. tell your doctor about new or worsening joint aches and pain, or a parasitic infection. don't change or stop asthma medicines, including steroids, without talking to your doctor. are you ready to du more with less asthma? just ask your asthma specialist about dupixent. centuries ago, native californians thrived on this land. now, we share a destiny with all californians.
when voters granted our sovereign nations exclusive gaming rights, it advanced self-sufficiency and created thousands of good jobs. but now, out of state corporations are coming to california. their online sports betting initiative would break the promise between us. it's bad for tribes and all californians. join us. protect the promise. people outside aversion are
trying to get the truth to russians, trying to overcome the information chokehold that vladimir putin has imposed on the country, including the former bodybuilder and the austrian american actor and governor of california, former governor of california, arnold schwarzenegger. today he published a video in which he offered a stark warning to russian soldiers in particular. in it, he explained how his father was a nazi soldier, and how believing the lives of the nazis ended up breaking his dad. >> my father arrived, he was all pumped up on the lives of his government. when he left leningrad, he was broken. physically and mentally. he lived the rest of his life and pain. paying from a broken back, pain from the shrapnel that always reminded him of the terrible years, and pain from the guilt that he felt will. the russian soldiers listening to this broadcast, you already
know much of the truth that i've been speaking. you've seen it with your own eyes. i don't want you to be broken like my father. this is not the war to defend russia. the ukraine -- this is an illegal war your lives. , your future have been sacrificed for senseless war condemned by the entire world. >> in the effort to try to get the truth to the people of russia is a tough one. russia the past few weeks has banned the groundbreaking russian news site, medusa, which is run out of latvia. this, week the cofounder and former publisher of that site wrote an op-ed entitled russians must accept the truth. we failed. in it, he argues quote, though we protested, organized, lobbied, spread information and build honest lives in the shadow of a corrupt regime, we must except the truth.
we failed. we failed to prevent a catastrophe, and we failed to change the country for the better, and now we must bear that failure. he adds, we must now put aside our individual concerns and accept our common responsibility for the war. such an act is first and foremost, a moral necessity. but it could also be the first step toward a new russian nation. a nation that could talk to the world in a language other than wars and threats. a nation that others will learn not to fear. it is toward creating this russia that we, outcast and exiled and persecuted, should bend our efforts. and quote. so how did the tens of thousands of russians who have fled russia, those who are still fleeing, how did they see saving their country from that gets asked roughly unfolding by the hands of their leader? what happens next? joining us live from georgia's capital is the cofounder and former publisher of the
independent russian new site, medusa. he fled moscow to go to georgia in the war started. thank you for being with us tonight. i want to ask you about, when you said we, meaning russian exiles or protesters, people who are trying to change the government and russia, we failed. and we must bear that responsibility together. what do you mean by that? it is bearing that responsibility look and feel like? >> first, high, and it's a pleasure to be here. i think right now it's a lot of people are saying to me right now why do you right we. from your site, not our side. it's hard to accept any responsibility right now. we really are -- the government is against us.
other people are against us. it's too hard to bear this responsibility. but still, i think somehow, i'm not the bravest one and sure, i'm not the heroic one. i know a lot of people who are fighting right now. and they are still in russia. but still, somehow, we as a society, we failed to prevent this catastrophe. the main thing is that we are just -- we didn't understand before the war that this war was possible. most of the people in moscow did not understand that it could happen. and maybe we will understand that it will happen. some people will do differently. i don't know what. i think this should be the biggest discussion in russia, after the war. what went wrong? because we just need to understand how to prevent such catastrophes in the future. we are in a difficult history.
we need to have something better in the future. >> if the job of media, sureness, thrill journalists, is to do what you were doing at medusa. the idea of bearing witness and holding power to account, in this particular instance, in the coverage of this war in ukraine, bearing witness, calling it what it is and saying what happened is now illegal. and holding power to account is impossible, because you can't actually say the things that you would be holding putin and his government to account for. so is that a failing of protesters and journalists, and people like that, or is that a problem that the russian people have to deal with with respect to their government? >> i need to say this is a problem for us as a society. the problem is how it happened that we are right now where we are trying to say look see,
this is a war. look, this is a war. other people are saying no, no, no, no war. no war. there are no bombings. there is no war. we need to understand how it happened before. sure this is not a problem of the last couple years. it's a problem of a couple of dozens of years. for 20 years. so i think that -- a year ago, two years ago. i think vladimir putin prepared for this war for eight years. now we understand, all this opposition over the free press and the crimean station, it was, i think, it was that they are preparing for the war. we thought we would survive somehow. now we would see something better indicating it had been five years, but we did not think about a european invader.
>> it's a message to all of us around the world. we all have to look at our countries for what they are, and will have to hold our leaders to account and fight for free food press. we appreciate you've been doing that, ilya krasilshchik, the cofounder and former publisher of meduza. i want you to read his op-ed. it's quite hopeful about what russia could be if done right. much more ahead. stay with us. stay with us. h protein with 20 grams of protein for muscle health. versus 16 grams in ensure high protein. boost® high protein also has key nutrients for immune support. boost® high protein. (music throughout)
boost® high protein also has key nutrients
this is my zen time. it's... ...like a video game! people say, 'well, what are you? are you a farmer or a brewer?' so, i say... i am definitely a lines guy. there are millions of ways to make the most of your mow. learn more at deere.com.
[yawn] bro trip! if you book with priceline, you'll save more, so you can “broooo” more. [impressed] broooooo. broooo!!!! broooo!!!! broooo!!!! [in unison] brooooooooo!!!! [splash] [disappointed] broooo... good thing you saved on the trip! priceline. every trip is a big deal. with relapsing forms of ms... there's a lot to deal with. saved on the trip! not just unpredictable relapses. all these other things too. it can all add up. kesimpta is a once-monthly at-home injection... that may help you put these rms challenges in their place. kesimpta was proven superior at reducing the rate of relapses, active lesions, and slowing disability progression vs aubagio. don't take kesimpta if you have hepatitis b, and tell your doctor if you have had it, as it could come back. kesimpta can cause serious side effects, including infections. while no cases of pml were reported in rms clinical trials, it could happen. tell your doctor if you had or plan to have vaccines, or if you are or plan to become pregnant. kesimpta may cause a decrease in some types of antibodies.
the most common side effects are upper respiratory tract infection, headache, and injection reactions. ready for an at-home treatment with dramatic results? it's time to ask your doctor about kesimpta. from the start of this war the port city of a dose of the, ukraine's third largest, has been seen as a ripe strategic target for russian forces. capturing it would effectively cut off ukraine's access to the black sea. now the pentagon says in the past 24 hours russia has ramped up its activity in the black sea and is chilling or desist
suburbs. a ukrainian official says the weather has hindered a seaboard attack last week, but quote, the ukrainian forces are waiting for them there. large swaths of a desist famous or line have been seated with land mines and obstacles to showdown a beach lining as people fill bags with sand. a monument to the city's founders unrecognizable, swaddled in sandbags to protect it from explosions. people walking around or disses main streets have to work their way through a maze of anti-tank hedgehogs dotting the main street. meanwhile, people continue to evacuate the city, taking buses west to moldova to escape the coming violence. about 80 miles to the east in mykolaiv, where ukraine's troops are locked entranced or fair with russian forces, halting their advance to odessa at a great cost. washington post video journalist has been traveling all over ukraine reporting on this conflict. she was just an mcculley of before traveling to odessa
where she joins us tonight. thank you for making time to be with us tonight. what is the situation as you are seeing it now? >> thank you for having me. the situation in odessa has been steady for the past ten days or so. they're very much prepared for the attack, and continue to prepare. but we are not seeing too much of an increase. there are reports of shelling in the southwest suburbs, but we haven't been able to make it out there yet to check it out. listen, >> you are with a family that was sheltering in a basement in mykolaiv. look at you tell us about that? what were they experiencing? >> yes, a few days ago we made a trip up to mykolaiv, and which is kind of the southern front of this war. over in the eastern neighborhood suburbs, we spent all this time with a little girl on her fifth birthday.
or apartment building had been very badly shelled, as well as multiple buildings around them. this little girl was happy. she gave us a tour of her bunker where she's living in a very cheerful voice. but you could also really see the amount of stress that this is playing on her. every few minutes she would kind of go from a happy girl like a kid, to very tearful and needing the comfort of her parents and neighbors, and some teenagers around her. so you could really see the toll this is taking on everyone nearby. >> they say about half the refugees are children, which is what looks like on our side of the border. but now a number of those people in odessa, where it's really been a long wait for an invasion that everybody is expecting to happen. maybe pouring over the western border there to moldova, which now has a higher number of refugees than even hungary has this point. the invasion hasn't come yet.
what are people -- would is the feeling in the city amongst the residents of odessa? >> yeah, the city has had time that other cities in ukraine didn't have. they've been preparing and waiting for an invasion. they know it will come. this is a very important city. it's the last major port on the black sea. and so, in addition to the hedgehogs and the sandbagging's, and narrowing streets and preparing for that invasion, there are also preparing civilians to take over some of these checkpoints and protecting of hospitals that have been targeted. we spent yesterday at training center for civilians. where they're putting them through a quick crash course of a type of boot camp, where veterans are trying to train
them up on basic gun skills. movement skills. medic skills, and everyone is very much preparing, but there is also a sense that you have to go on living your life in a small degree while they wait. the city was very quiet when we originally arrived. we're starting to see more and more people on the streets going to the grocery store, going on aaron's. we see one or two restaurants opening up. but there are still very focused on what they know will come, and keeping a really close eye on what is going on in mykolaiv, it is that will tell them a lot about when the war might come to the room town. >> whitney, thank you for your great reporting. whitney leaming, a journalist for the washington post. thank you for joining us. we will be right back. thank you for joining us we will be right back. we will be right back. e confidence in the nutritional drink you choose.
try boost glucose control®. it's clinically shown to help manage blood sugar levels and contains high quality protein to help manage hunger and support muscle health. try boost® today.
♪ it's the most wonderful time of the year, ♪ ♪ with the kids jingle belling ♪ ♪ and everyone telling you'll be of good cheer ♪ it's spring! claritin provides non-drowsy symptom relief from over 200 indoor and outdoor allergens, day after day. ♪ oh the most wonderful time ♪ feel the clarity - and make today the most wonderful time of the year. live claritin clear. - common percy! - yeah let's go! on a trip. book with priceline. you save more, so you can “woooo” more. - wooo. - wooo. wooooo!!!!! woohooooo!!!! w-o-o-o-o-o... yeah, feel the savings. priceline. every trip is a big deal. i heard they're like a peach a little bit. is tim okay??? we got the new my gm rewards card.
so, everything we buy has that new car smell. -stahp. -i will not. food's here! this smells like a brand-new car! yup. best-in-class rewards, and a great way toward your next chevrolet, buick, gmc or cadillac. and with all those points on everything we buy... ...we're thinking suv. with leather! a new kind of appreciation with that new car smell. when it comes to cybersecurity, the biggest threats don't always strike the biggest targets. so help safeguard your small business with comcast business securityedge™. it's advanced security that continuously scans for threats and helps protect every connected device. on the largest, fastest, reliable network with speeds up to 10 gigs to the most small businesses. so you can be ready for what's next. get started with internet and voice for $64.99 a month. and ask how to add securityedge™. or, ask how to get up to an $800 prepaid card. today is a joyous jewish
holiday, saving people from evil government officials. because of that origin story, the holiday has taken on greater significance this year. i was looking up to be invited to a poor arm celebration here in budapest, which despite everything, had lots of reputed -- ukrainian refugees in attendance. this is a celebration of
survival for jewish people everywhere. and for the man playing the guitar, survival means something different this year, as he and his family right here in budapest after escaping kyiv just one week ago. on this holiday, purim, jews traditionally spin noisy rattles called groggeries to drown out the name of an oppressor more than 2500 years ago. this year, hungarian jews been them to draw out the sounds of war, deafening their ukrainian neighbors. >> if we hear about the war, we try to send a message with this noise that this war should probably stop immediately and. all the people in ukraine would be free and released. >> the party esteemed in blue and gold for ukraine. people wearing buttons that say rattle for peace. purim is an ancient festival amongst the jews celebrating the victory of mordechai and esther overhand on.
the person official that vowed to kill of the jews of purja. celebrated here with noise makers, gifts, food and drinks all of which take on heightened significance with the jurors that have now escaped ukraine. tell me about the juice that you have been meeting who have been coming in here from ukraine. >> we have seen isis a great group of refugees coming in from ukraine. jews and non-jews. we tried to help them all. but obviously, jewish people have a connection with us. just three days after the war broke out veilleux from -- a decide, he calls me up, the rabbi, he says rabbi, i don't know what to do. please help us. i had 150 kids. jewish orphanage that are now's -- not safe now. they don't have parents. how do you take them to a safer place? so we have to arrange them to come through the border. >> on this nights, this budapest synagogue welcomes more than 50 ukrainian refugees,
brightening their lives in a particularly dark time. among the guests, the musician is a jewish scholar named pink is. forced to flee ukraine in a car on saturday, the chabot, something his interpretation of jewish law would normally prohibit, unless your life is in danger. >> we wind out of the city. we went to another place. it wasn't so safe. we went to where people get rest. a jewish place of rest. also there were many strikes the two nights we slept there, and it was also scary. >> his family's safety no cause for celebration. safety that for jewish people throughout history, and now all people of ukraine, has never been guaranteed. >> we build a beautiful community just like this one. with schools, synagogues, orphanages, old age homes. now after 30 years they have to leave in one day.
they don't know they will return. it breaks my heart. i think it has to break all of our hearts. we have to own make sure that we tell all the decision-makers that they should put down their guns and people should pray to god that some common sense should come to humanity to understand that you cannot achieve anything with war. you can achieve everything with the love of your fellow >> that was a little bit of warmth, fun and festivity in a few weeks that i'd seen very little of that. that does it for us tonight. we're going to see you again tomorrow. it's time now for the last word with lawrence o'donnell. >> good evening. once again, thank you for an extraordinary hour of coverage, bringing us exactly what's happening. we really appreciate it. >> thank you, have a goodshow. >> thank you. the official count of ukrainian children murdered by vladimir putin increased today. it increased to 108. that's just the official