house covid hearings, for prominent u.s. scientists in the c-span cameras to humiliate and discredit them. we have never done that before as a country. >> doctor, peter hotez, whose work advice and evolve in 14 of a low cost for the global that t a big pharma friendly is some of the most righteous work a person can do, and has saved many lives through your personal work. thank you very much for your work. >> appreciate it, chris. >> that is "all in" on this monday night. "rachelmaddowshowstarts right now.   happy to see you talk to dr. hotez, senator fedderman and his mustache, i was like, you had this great back and forth, and everything, and i'm so transfixed by the mustache, i can't believe it alone didn't get a question. >> his look right now is 11 out of 10, no notes, perfection. >> seriously. well done, great to see you, my
friend, thank you. and thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. really good to have you here. so have you ever been asked to dog sit or cat sit for a friend while they are away? or to plant sit even? to water your friend's plants? are you the person who's been given the spare key to your neighbor's apartment in case of emergency? i feel like maybe this was different in different eras and for different generations but i feel like in our lives, in our time, there aren't that many formal signs in life. there aren't that many formal bits of feedback that can tell you if you're doing okay. things that can tell you whether the people who know you don't just like you, they trust you, they think you are an honorable person. i mean, there are a few formal things like that, you know, you can be like voted captain of a team in school sports or something. you can be chosen by your peers
for some kind of responsibility, maybe you get asked to be on the select board in your town or you get asked to be on the bargaining unit at your job or something like that. there are some sort of formal things that come across, but more often, it's these not formal, small personal things, being asked by your neighbor or your friend to dog sit, being entrusted with that, being given that spare key by your neighbor. maybe it dawns on you that as your family members are making decisions about where they're going to live, you find that members of your family are moving to be closer to where you live. and that's because they think you're solid, that you can be counted on. and also be the really humbling things, the more serious stuff, like somebody asking you to be their child's god parent, somebody asking you to be the executor of their will. there are things like this in life, large things and small
things that i think of as midlife checkups, signs of whether in the eyes of your peers and your loved ones, you're seen as somebody who's doing okay, doing things right, honorable, trust worthy, you can be counted on. if you don't have anything like that in your life, i hope you someday do. i hope every one of us some day is listed as the "in case of emergency" contact in somebody else's phone. amen, let us all be that for somebody some day. at the level of us as a country, though, not just as individuals, today's news brought maybe the best test i had ever seen, the starkest test i had ever seen of whether a country is doing things right in the eyes of the people who know it best. today in a surprise, the united states and iran exchanged
prisoners. five americans who have been unjustly held in iran, basically as hostages, they were released from prison today. they were flown to qatar, and they were quickly flown to the united states, where they are being reunited with their families. these are five iranian-americans, one of whom was the longest held american in iran since 1979. he was held in iran for eight years. in the evin prison there, the notorious evin prisons, two other americans released today were held in iran for five years. they have been by the iranian government for so much time, but the biden administration negotiated to get them free and today in a surprise, these five americans flew out of iran. they flew to qatar immediately, and then on to the united states.
now, as part of this negotiation, the u.s. government also agreed to free five iranians, and iranian-americans who were being held here, people who were charged or convicted with various crimes here. and these were mostly related to alleged or proven violations of the sanctions that our government has against iran, but this was basically the swap. five americans held in iran coming home here. five iranians or iranian-americans who are being held here freed to go back to iran. but it is telling, it is very telling that when the five people who were imprisoned in iran were freed in iran, they all did the same thing. they all high tailed it out of iran immediately. they left that country. they stopped in qatar briefly, and they came back to the united states, all five of them. but you look at the five on the other side of the deal, you look at the five people who were freed here in the united states,
their plans do not look the same. at least one and possibly two of the men who were freed here today in this deal with iran are not going back to iran, they are going to stay in america. one told news organizations today, another iranian official told news organizations today that they're going to stay in america. thanks. no plans to leave here for iran, are you crazy? and i feel like this is an important sort of signal moment for us as a country, just as it is a sign of a life well lived if someone asks you to water their plants while they are gone, right, somebody entrusts you with their house key in case of an emergency, so too is it a sign that you're doing something right as a country when even the people who you free from prison decide they'd rather stay here in this country than go back to the country that negotiated for their freedom. now, i'd rather stay here in this country, even though you just brought federal criminal
charges against me. it is still nicer here than there, even though that's the country that traded for me. i'll stay here. i mean, talk whatever trash you want to about the united states of america, truly feel free, it is literally a free country, but clearly we are doing something right. right? thank you, iran, for the high stakes international negotiations on my behalf that freed me to leave america where i am being criminally prosecuted. also, i would prefer to stay in america despite all of that. see you never. think about what that says about us as a country. we're close to three dozen american hostages that the biden administration has now successfully brought home from various despotic countries around the world. republicans are criticizing president biden, criticizing the biden administration for getting these americans home today from iran, but you know what, these americans are on their way home tonight from iran. they are no longer in the
notorious evin prison where they have been languishing for five years, eight years without hope. these americans are coming home. and, yes, republicans are criticizing president biden for getting them home. republicans also criticize president biden for getting brittney griner home, ouch out of russia after the government there took her hostage as well. i look forward to the day we get to hear republican criticism about getting evan gershkovich who's being held in moscow still as we speak. hopefully the day that he comes home will arrive soon too, and inevitably, republicans will be up in arms about it when it happens, but it will nevertheless be a great day. with this dramatic and joyful news today about these long-held american hostages being released from prison in iran, released and flown home to the united states and at least one, if not
two of the five iranians released here as part of the deal deciding that he'll nevertheless stay here in this country, thanks very much, with president biden in new york for the u.n. general assembly, where he's going to make a big speech tomorrow. with all of that going on, we've got america's ambassador to the united nations, theest mandible linda thomas greenfield here tonight with us on set for the interview. i'm very much looking forward to that conversation in just a moment. but that dynamic that i'm describing at work in the news today, that indication that, you know, well, for all of our faults we must be doing something right, if even the people who other countries spring from our prisons through diplomatic negotiations nevertheless want to stay here after they are sprung, i feel like that dynamic is also a reminder that what we do have in this country is unique.
and it's not inevitable ft what sets us apart as a country is losable, it's fragile, it needs protecting. and you can see that in the other headlines in today's news. headline, threats mount against prosecutors and fbi agents working on hunter biden probe. prosecutors and fbi agents involved in the hunter biden investigation have been the targets of threats and harassment according to government officials and congressional testimony obtained by nbc news. quote, it's part of a dramatic uptick in threats against fbi agents that has coincided with the tax on the fbi and the justice department by congressional republicans and former president donald trump. the threats have prompted the fbi to create a stand alone unit to investigate and mitigate them according to previously unreleased congressional testimony. heers another one, headline, fbi investigating violent threats against officials in fulton county, georgia. and the saga of the multiple
criminal trials that are ahead for former president and republican leading congressional presidential candidate donald trump, one major thing we're waiting on for -- we're waiting on right now, could happen at any time, is news on whether the federal judge overseeing trump's case in d.c., the one about him trying to overturn the election, will that judge grant the prosecutor's request for an order that restricts the kinds of statements that trump can make about that trial. so as to not prejudice the jury pool, so as not to intimidate witnesses. it's very striking. we're waiting on that order from the judge right now, but, you know, in the request for that order from the judge, prosecutors had to give examples to the court of some of the times that trump's overheated public statements have led his followers to commit violence or to threaten violence on his behalf. they included in their court filing, the recent arrest of a trump supporters in texas who called the chambers of the
federal judge who was overseeing that trial, and threatened to kill the judge because trump is on trial in her courtroom. i mean, all of these things, the court filing about the potential gag order, the threats to fulton county officials, the threats to the fbi itself. i mean, these are all just in the past few days. but these headlines are just now the ambient mood of public service in the trump era of republican politics. right? it's fulton county officials being threatened. it's the fulton county sheriff having to investigate that. then it's the fulton county sheriff being threatened and the fbi having to investigate that. then it's the fbi being threatened. fbi officials and fbi agents themselves being threatened and the fbi having to investigate that. it's the judge in one of the trump cases being threatened. it's another judge and another one of the trump cases being threatened. it's the grand jurors in one of the trump cases being threatened. it's the prosecutor in one trump
case being threatened. it's the prosecutor in another trump case being threatened. it's a federal prosecutor in the hunter biden investigation getting quote, such a barrage of credible threats that she had to seek security help from the u.s. marshals service. it's public health workers being threatened and harassed. it's the head of the cdc getting death threats, the head of the cdc. it's the staff of the national archives being threatened, sure, why not, quote, the national archives has been hit with a wave of threats since the fbi retrieved classified records from trump's mar-a-lago club. it's the irs being threatened, quote, irs launches a safety ruf after right wing threats, republicans in congress repeating baseless claims long made by extremists, experts say potentially puts federal workers in danger. it's more than a dozen people now federally, criminally charged with making threats to election workers all over the country. now, it's republican u.s.
senator former republican presidential nominee mitt romney telling his biographer about serving members of congress in both the house and the senate confiding in him that they have taken specific votes in congress that benefitted trump specifically pause they were afraid for their physical safety if they did not. they would have voted in a way not beneficial to trump, but they felt physically threatened and so they voted in a way beneficial to trump. quote, think of your personal safety. think of your children. why put your wife and children at risk. if public life, public service, even just regular citizen participation in regular politics is suffused with threats of violence now, one of the things that for sure does is it forces regular people out of politics and out of public service. right? it is common sense, if politics
and public service are being made into something that is quite literally dangerous, then in the normal course of events, normal people will steer clear. right? that's part of why there's a -- we have a protected, you know, right to associate with others, even for political purposes in this country, right, you ought to be able to gather with others. you ought to be able to assemble, you have the right to assemble peaceably, to seek the redress of grievances. why do we have a right to pieceablely assemble, so people can assemble peaceably, so you don't feel like trying to address your grievances with the government is going to you to physical danger either with the government. we protect protesters, people assembling peacefully to say their peace so we can all peacefully say our piece, so we will, our government will be accountable to us, our government will continue to adapt to the needs and the wants
and the voice of the people. what we have now is an atmosphere of ultra right wing political violence and threat, which doesn't only affect the individual politicians and civil servants and poll workers and law enforcement officials who are being directly targeted by trump supporters. it has a systemic effect too. right? systemically over time it thins out. it hollows out the public sphere and government so it's no longer for anybody. it's only for the brave and the militant. and those who themselves are willing to either abide threats of violence or issue them themselves. and that is not the kind of democracy we are. that is not what we are supposed to be. we are supposed to have a rollicking free press, we are supposed to have the constitutionally protected freedom to associate. freedom to assemble, including for political reasons, redress of grievance from the
government. we are supposed to have a vibrant, rollicking civil society, we're supposed to have no barrier to entry, participatory democracy at every level from student government to school board to city hall to your locally elected dog catcher and alderman and state rep and president. if participation in public life at every level instead is cowed by people wielding guns and threats of mob violence and death threats and intimidation of witnesses and the doxxing of grand jurors and all the rest of it, then at a fundamental level, we are just doing it wrong. we are doing it, in fact, like way too much of the rest of the world does it. and the fact that we haven't been that, the fact that we have been different, the fact that we have been a place where government is by and for the people is at least until now why so much of the world has been
aspiring to come here when they can. last week, we saw republicans in the state of wisconsin fire the widely praised technocratic nonpartisan administration of elections in that crucial swing state after she refused to help wisconsin republicans muddle or overturn the results of that state's presidential election in 2020. republicans in the wisconsin legislature were told by the attorney general of the state, they were told by their own lawyers in the legislature that they do not have the authority to fire this election official, but they went ahead and they are trying to do it anyway. this week, we'll see republicans in the crucial swing state of north carolina try to do effectively the same thing, as north carolina republicans this week are teeing up a vote to take over elections administration in that state, too. they have been trying to do this in north carolina, but they have been blocked so far by voters in a clear state referendum.
also multiple court rulings are standing in their way too. this week, they're apparently ready to go for it again, to take over the administration of elections in that swing state. because heaven forbid we hold on to free and fair technocratically sound and boring election administration in this country, real small d democracy, heaven forbid we hold on to that when instead we could trade it in for garbage, untrusted elections like so many others have in so many parts of the world, which again is what sends good people in other parts of the world fleeing to us when they can. because for so long we have done it better because our constitution has led us to do it better. we have a good and rare thing going in this country. a republic, if we can keep it. doesn't mean we don't have our problems. we have a good system for fixing
our problems. we are listed as the in case of emergency contact in the phone of the whole rest of the world. which is something to be proud of. and it is something to fight hard to protect. our american ambassador to the united nations joins us live here next. stay with us. but as you get older, it naturally begins to change, causing a lack of sharpness, or even trouble with recall. thankfully, the breakthrough in prevagen helps your brain and actually improves memory. the secret is an ingredient originally discovered... in jellyfish. in clinical trials, prevagen has been shown to improve short-term memory. prevagen. at stores everywhere without a prescription. age is just a number, and mine's unlisted. try boost® high protein with 20 grams of protein for muscle health versus 16 grams in ensure® high protein.
boost® high protein. now available in cinnabon® bakery-inspired flavor. learn more at boost.com/tv fly to paris. see the tower. smaller than you expected. wait in line. see the mona lisa. smaller than you expected. check in. see your room.
bigger than you expected. join one key, where gold and platinum members get travel perks, like room upgrades. why do dermatologists choose dove? the dove beauty bar, is gentle. it not only cleans, it hydrates my skin. as a dermatologist, i want what's best for our skin. with 1/4 moisturizing cream, dove is the #1 bar dermatologists use at home. (♪♪) rsv can be a dangerous virus... [sneeze] ...for those 60 and older.
it's not just a cold. and if you're 60 or older... ...you may be at increased risk of hospitalization... [coughing] ...from this highly... ...contagious virus. not all dangers come with warning labels. talk to your pharmacist or doctor... ...about getting vaccinated against rsv today. every business that's why comcast business de is launching theal. mobile made free event. with our business internet, new and existing customers can get one year of unlimited mobile for free. it's our best internet. powered by the next generation 10g network and with 99.9% reliability. plus one line of free mobile for an entire year. it's the mobile made free event-happening now. get started for just $49.99 a month. plus, ask how to get one free line of unlimited mobile. comcast business, powering possibilities.
.   it is rare on a monday that
i can pretty confidently tell you what tuesday's news is going to consist of. but dollars to doughnuts says at least some of tomorrow's news is going to be about president biden addressing the united nations tomorrow morning, as well as president zelenskyy from ukraine also expected to address the united nations live and in person tomorrow. they are both here because this is the week of the united nations general assembly. joining us now for the interview is america's ambassador to the united nations, linda thomas-greenfield, madame ambassador, it's nice to see you. thank you for being here. >> you too, thank you for having me. >> if i know one thing about the united nations general assembly being here this week, you do not have time to be here talking to me. >> i have time to be here talking to you, thank you for inviting me. >> let me ask you first about the dramatic prisoner swap today. five americans who had long been held prisoner in iran being freed there on their way home as we speak. five iranians, iranian americans who were either federally
charged or already in custody here in the united states swapped for them. i wanted to ask you about a statement made by one of the americans who was freed today, who described this incredible gratitude of being freed, but he said this, over the past 44 years, the iranian regime has mastered the nasty game of caging innocent americans and other foreign nationals and commercializing their freedom by now evin prison is virtually a dystopian united nations of hostages. we must channel the pain of the victims of this wickedness into the kinds of measures that will up end the cost benefit, if we keep this venal path to profit for risk and toll for them, this vile regime will keep treading on it again and again and again. even as he's being freed, he's saying this system where countries like iran take american hostages effectively for profit, financial profit,
diplomatic profit, we have to stop that. what's the response to that? >> there's no profit the iranians got from this deal. we released five unfairly held american citizens, and brought them home to their families. and what the iranians got were five of their citizens who we ensured were held accountable for what they did. and as i heard from your report, one or two of them don't want to go home. so they have to explain that as well. but this was about the americans who were released and unfairly held, and i know that they are rejoicing with their families tonight. there are other americans being held elsewhere such as in russia. evan gershkovich, paul whelan who we're working around the clock to get released and home to their families as well.
>> it tells us something important about regimes like russia and iran, however much they swagger and use other means to display themselves in the world is if they carry weight and have influence and are rich and powerful, they're effectively having to resort to these criminal desperate tactics of taking hostages, preferably american hostages whenever they can in order to try to get concessions out of us and out of other countries. is there some sort of regime that the united states could lead? some sort of compact the united states could lead to further disincentivize rogue countries like that from going, plucking off individual americans for this type of reason? >> you know, we certainly work in the united nations with our partners, with other allies to make it as difficult as possible for these countries to hold them accountable at every opportunity we can hold them accountable and
every forum where we can call them out for their bad deeds. this is something that is a core value for us in working in the united nations, working with partners to hold countries like iran accountable. it's not easy because we're dealing with individuals who really have no heart, and don't really care. but we've had some success, and i think most recently kicking iran off the commission on the status of women when they killed amini was a huge, huge deal, and i don't think they expected that they would get that kind of reaction. >> we've seen leaders like vladimir putin in particular in russia trying to recast the idea of international institutions
and international alliances, so there's some sort of alternative to the world, right, we've got the united nations. we've got the american-led western word, and they're trying to create what they say is a multipolar world that doesn't include the united states that isn't based around international rules-based institutions like the united nations and instead based on alliances of convenience among dictators, and it sound pitiful, and it sound doomed to failure, until you take a wider lens and realize that actually, right wing authoritarian governments are on the rise around the world, including in some old democracies that you'd think would be immune to this sort of thing. i mean, president biden has talked about the choice between democracy and autocracy as being the guiding international light of sort of guiding global light of what he's doing as president, do you see it the same way? >> i do. and we do have to really ramp up our efforts to support democracies because we know that
when democracies succeed they bring about changes in thelives of their people, and russia knows that, and that's why they are doing everything possible to damage democracies around the world, but we in our -- recently we had a meeting of community of democracies, and we were able to say to the world that democracies do work. democracies do deliver to their people. we know that they're a tax on democracy today. we've seen coups happening in africa recently, and we have seen autocratic governments try to do everything possible not to engage with the world, but we can't just say, oh, it's okay. they're doing this, they're winning. we have to keep fighting. and that's exactly what the administration is doing.
it's what i'm doing every day in the united nations. >> when you take america's case to the world, which is literally your job at the united nations, one of the things that has changed that you sort of have on your plate or at least that you need to account for in the way you represent america to the world that no other u.n. ambassador has ever had to deal with is the fact that for the first time we have a former president facing criminal charges. he happens to also be the leading republican contender for the next republican presidential nomination. lots of countries have charged or locked up former presidents, former prime ministers, it's not that unusual in most parts of the world. it's very unusual, unprecedented here. i wonder how that factors in to your job of talking to the rest of the world about the values of democracy, about the rules of law, and about accountability? . >> look, there is no question to
people around the world that our democracy is strong. but it is under attack, and we have to defend that democracy every way we can. when i arrived in new york in 2021, i was embraced by countries around the world. i was embraced by friends as well as competitors. they were happy to see the united states back at the table. they have asked me over and over again, can we feel confident that you're going to stay at the table, and i can't give them that confidence other than to say that our country is strong and our country will always survive, that we have been tested before. we survived a civil war, and our country continues to thrive. we're not a perfect democracy by any means. we're constantly self-correcting. we acknowledge our faults, but we survive.
and we will continue to do that. >> our guest is linda thomas-greenfield, she's america's ambassador to the united nations, we have to take a quick break. when we come back, i'm going to ask you a thorny question that you are not going to want to answer, that's the only thing i can promise you about it. >> i know how to not answer. >> i know, the world's most diplomatic people are the world's most difficult interviews. we'll be right back with our u.n. ambassador, linda thomas-greenfield, right after this. inophils. it's designed to target and remove them and helps prevent asthma attacks. fasenra is not for sudden breathing problems or other eosinophilic conditions. allergic reactions may occur. don't stop your asthma treatments without talking with your doctor. tell your doctor if your asthma worsens. headache and sore throat may occur. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection. get back to better breathing. ask your doctor about fasenra.
with your hearing, if you start having a little trouble, you're concerned that it's going to cost you money. to this day i only paid what i had to pay for the device... when i go back everything is covered. there's so much you're missing by not having hearing aids. (♪♪) we'll find you a hearing aid that fits your lifestyle and budget. unlock your risk-free trial during our limited-time sounds of autumn event. call 1-800-miracle to book your appointment today. there are some things that go better... together. burger and fries... soup and salad. like your workplace benefits and retirement savings.
with voya, considering all your financial choices together can help you make smarter decisions. voya. well planned. well invested. well protected. my a1c was up here; now, it's down with rybelsus®. voya. his a1c?nned. it's down with rybelsus®. my doctor told me rybelsus® lowered a1c better than a leading branded pill and that people taking rybelsus® lost more weight. i got to my a1c goal and lost some weight too. rybelsus® isn't for people with type 1 diabetes. don't take rybelsus® if you or your family ever had medullary thyroid cancer, or have multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 2, or if allergic to it. stop rybelsus® and get medical help right away if you get a lump or swelling in your neck, severe stomach pain, or an allergic reaction. serious side effects may include pancreatitis. gallbladder problems may occur. tell your provider about vision problems or changes. taking rybelsus® with a sulfonylurea or insulin increases low blood sugar risk. side effects like nausea, vomiting,
and diarrhea may lead to dehydration, which may worsen kidney problems. need to get your a1c down? you may pay as little as $10 per prescription. the virus that causes shingles is sleeping... in 99% of people over 50. it's lying dormant, waiting... and could reactivate. shingles strikes as a painful, blistering rash that can last for weeks. and it could wake at any time. think you're not at risk for shingles? it's time to wake up. because shingles could wake up in you. if you're over 50, talk to your doctor or pharmacist about shingles prevention.

back with us now for the interview is linda thomas-greenfield, she is the u.s. ambassador to the united nations. this is the week of the united nations general assembly, along with president biden, ukrainian president volodymyr zelenskyy is going to be speaking with the u.n. general assembly this week. i think they're both speaking tomorrow. >> i know the president is speaking tomorrow. >> i also expect that president biden and president zelenskyy will meet and continue their talks in person on this trip. i have to ask you about something that i realized is a thorny sort of thing. which is that one of the things we've learned in the news in the past week or so is that as america is supporting ukraine in its war to defend itself against russia, a single american citizen has business interests of such a type that he has been able, as an individual, to make decisions to constrain ukraine's military from carrying out
operations against russia. and i'm talking of course about elon musk. it is -- i'm sure this is not an unprecedented thing in american history but in mr. musk's case, we've got somebody who is an american businessman who effectively has foreign policy sway on his own, and who for whatever reason has effectively decided to conduct competing and i would say oppositional foreign policy to the united states, a country of which he is a citizen. who does president zelenskyy come to to complain about that? i mean, you are the u.s. ambassador to the united nations, but mr. musk appears to be competing with his own country in terms of what his foreign policy is, and he has the technological resources to do it in a materially significant way. >> you know, i would assume that president zelenskyy will raise that with the united states, and having served as an ambassador overseas and served here, i do have countries come to me to
complain sometimes about the actions of an american company in their country. and we do try to address those issues when they're brought to our attention, so i assume if president zelenskyy has a complaint, he will bring that to us, if he hasn't already. he hasn't brought it to me. >> with the kind of technology that we're talking about here, this starlink technology, linked to mr. musk's spacex company, is an integral, effectively information supply line for ukrainian military forces, an irreplaceable asset for them, and that's bad in one sense we now know because the united states as a government effectively can't make a decision as to how that resource should be deployed to help or hurt our ally in that conflict. it's instead being made by a business, purportedly an american business but not
behaving in a way consistent with america's stated interests. what are the responsibilities of the american government toward american businesses that are messing with american foreign policy? >> we do two things working with american companies overseas. we support american companies in their efforts to work overseas. but we also establish certain parameters for how american companies operate. this is a situation that i can't comment on specifically. i don't know any of the details of this, but i do expect that president zelenskyy will raise it, and it will be brought to the attention of others to address. >> i knew you were going to devoid the answer to that question. i could tell you before i asked it because i know that you can't answer it in the specific, but i find it to be a confounding situation just as an observer and as an american.
another situation that is confounding and concerning is one that the biden administration has expressed very sharp concern about, which is a new law in uganda which is being called the kill the gays law, which establishes, in fact, the death penalty for something they called aggravated homosexuality. they're threatening to kill people just for being gay. the biden administration has been sharply critical of this. the obama administration was sharply critical of this in 2013 and 2014 when the uganda tried it the first time around. there are american finger prints, right wing activists have encouraged the government to do this, and u.s. fund make up a significant portion of the ugandan system, to contradict the effects of hiv and aids in
that country. pepfar is a very successful program, and i think all sort of righteous people want to defend it in terms of how many lives it's saved around the world, but -- >> 25 million. >> it's an astonishingly effective american program, perhaps one of the most life saving american interventions in the world ever, and i keep hearing from activists who are trying to keep the gay community from being killed off by their government in uganda that pepfar funds are being routed through the ugandan governments who are most responsible in uganda for that policy, and given how strongly the administration feels about this, isn't there a way that that funding could be directed so that it's still solving the problem in uganda but not making that problem worse for their sexual minority that is facing really really serious, serious risk? >> you know, i was asked this question by lawrence o'donnell
when i was on hisshowthe last time after you spoke to him, and let me just start out by saying that this law is horrific, and we've made very clear in no uncertain terms to the ugandan government that it is unacceptable. and we are doing everything in our power to support the lgbtq community in uganda, to ensure their safety and to ensure that they are not damaged by this law. and we do know that at least one individual has recently been arrested and charged and is in the process of being tried. >> and because it's a capital offense, is being held in prison awading trial. >> and it is a capital offense. >> life-threatening situation. >> so we are looking at and i said this before, how we can continue to provide the good
support that pepfar, provides directly to individuals to help save their lives without putting that funding through the ugandan government or through individuals in the ugandan government who are responsible for implementing this law. it's a huge dilemma, but we have to find a way to do that. and we have to find a way to hold those accountable who are basically violating the human rights of the lgbtq community in uganda. we engage with them on a regular basis. i was involved with the situation during the 2013, 2014 period during the obama administration when i was assistant secretary for africa, and we were successful in getting the government to stop moving forward on the law. we failed on that this time around, but we're continuing to
engage the lgbtq community on how we can help them and also to put pressure on the ugandan government to push back and urge them not to enforce this horrific law. >> neighboring countries, of course watching closely to see what happens in uganda to see if they should also pursue legislation like this, raising the stakes even further. >> linda thomas greendfield, madame ambassador, our ambassador of the united nations, busiest woman in new york. thank you so much for your time. it's an honor to have that much time with you. >> thank you. >> we'll be right back. stay with us. >> thank you >> we'll be right back stay with us ...the massage chair at the mall. but...he wasn't. gain flings with oxi boost and febreze. ♪ there it is. that feeling you get... when you can du more with less asthma. it starts with dupixent. dupixent is not for sudden breathing problems.
it's an add-on treatment for specific types of moderate-to-severe asthma. and can help improve lung function for better breathing in as little as two weeks. dupixent helps prevent asthma attacks... and can even reduce or eliminate oral steroids. can you picture it? dupixent can cause allergic reactions that can be severe. get help right away if you have rash, chest pain, worsening shortness of breath, tingling or numbness in your limbs. tell your doctor about new or worsening joint aches and pain, or a parasitic infection. don't change or stop asthma medicines, including steroids, without talking to your doctor. who knows what you can do when you du more with less asthma. ask your asthma specialist about dupixent.
♪ limu emu & doug ♪ what do we always say, son? liberty mutual customizes your car insurance... so you only pay for what you need. that's my boy. now you get out there, and you make us proud, huh? ♪ bye, uncle limu. ♪ stay off the freeways! only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ ♪♪ we're not writers, but we help you shape your financial story. ♪♪ we're not an airline, but our network connects global businesses across nearly 160 markets.
♪♪ we're not a startup, but our innovation labs use new technologies to help keep your information secure. ♪♪ we're not architects, but we help build stronger communities. ♪♪ we're not just any bank. we are citi. ♪♪ frustrated by skin tags? dr. scholl's has the breakthrough you've been waiting for. the first fda-cleared at-home skin tag remover clinically proven to remove skin tags safely in as little as one treatment.
rsv can severely affect the lungs and lower airways. but i'm protected with arexvy. arexvy is a vaccine used to prevent lower respiratory disease from rsv in people 60 years and older. rsv can be serious for those over 60, including those with asthma, diabetes, copd, and certain other conditions. but i'm protected. arexvy is proven to be over 82% effective in preventing lower respiratory disease from rsv and over 94% effective in those with these health conditions. arexvy does not protect everyone and is not for those with severe allergic reactions to its ingredients. those with weakened immune systems may have a lower response to the vaccine. the most common side effects are injection site pain, fatigue, muscle pain, headache, and joint pain. i chose arexvy. rsv? make it arexvy.
so this is the headline at abc news tonight. trump wrote to do list for assistant on white house documents marked classified. it's like somebody did a madlibs of hilarious nightmare headlines, now newly plausible because trump. trump wrote to-do lists for his assistant on classified documents. seriously. what abc news is reporting tonight is as straightforward and nutty as that sounds, now, nbc has not matched this reporting. this is not our story. it is abc's, but abc is citing multiple sources in this report that trump's former white house executive assistant has told federal investigators that when he left office, when she was working for him at his florida golf club thing, trump was in the habit of grabbing any old
classified document he had laying around and using those documents as essentially a scrap pad to scribble out to-do lists for her, documents that had obvious classified markings on them. trump of course has been indicted over the allegation that he had all of those classified documents laying around in the first place, when he should not have. special counsel jack smith has charged him with 40 felony criminal counts, alleging that trump illegally took classified material from the white house, then lied to the government about having it, then tried to hide the material from federal investigators, literally he hid it by moving boxes of documents from room to room at his golf club in the hopes that nobody would find these things. it is in some ways the most simple, straightforward, and easily digestible of the four criminal indictments that are currently pending against the former president. the import of this reporting today from abc news, which, again, has not been verified by nbc news, it is not so much that
former president trump allegedly likes to use classified documents as he should not even have -- things he shouldn't even have as scrap paper, it's that he handed these classified documents with his scribbles to his assistant. and then she handed them over to the fbi. that assistant no longer works for trump. it has previously been reported that she is cooperating with special counsel's investigation. if that is the case, if she is cooperating, that has implications not just for the classified documents case but also for the january 6th case as well. for trump's federal indictment for trying to overturn the 2020 election. the same assistant pops up in that indictment, too. she was trump's assistant when he was president as well. she sat right outside the oval office, fielding e-mails and calls for him, including some related to the various schemes to try to overturn the election. when it comes to that case, if there is a cooperator who is his
executive assistant, that's important. there's also something else that we're newly keeping an eye on, as recently as a couple of weeks ago, we had seen reporting that special counsel jack smith was still investigating efforts to overturn the 2020 election, that even a month after indicting trump, a federal grand jury was still working on that case, still interviewing new witnesses. now, that grand jury was set to expire this past friday, friday last week. but if mr. smith wanted to extend it, he could have tried to do so. we don't know whether he did. so that is yet another thing to keep in mind and keep an eye on with the january 6th case right now. all eyes are on the d.c. courthouse where the grand jury has been meeting to see if they will be back this week, literally reporters are out watching the courthouse to see if they can see the grand jurors walk in because that's the only way we'll know if the grand jury has been extended or if they have, in fact, been wrapped up. the grand jury has been meeting tuesdays and thursdays, which means eyes open on that,
tomorrow we could know as soon as tomorrow whether jack smith extended their stay, whether they are still at it, whether further indictments may be coming. watch this space. and really smart later i'm 70-ish. consider an aarp medicare supplement insurance plan from unitedhealthcare. with this type of plan, you'll know upfront about how much your care costs. which makes planning your financial future easier. so call unitedhealthcare today to learn more about the only plans of their kind with the aarp name. and set yourself and your future self up with an aarp medicare supplement plan from unitedhealthcare. eat pretzels. eat more pretzels. watch movies. watch more movies. get airline miles. get onekeycash. book in-app to earn onekeycash on top of your airline miles. new dove men bodywash gives you 24 hours of nourishing micromoisture. that means your skin still feels healthy
and smooth now... now... ...and now too. get healthier, smoother feeling skin all day. - [female narrator] they line up by the thousands. each one with a story that breaks your heart. like ravette... every step, brought her pain. their only hope: mercy ships. the largest floating civilian hospital in the world. bringing free surgeries to people who have no other hope. $19 a month will help provide urgently needed surgery for so many still suffering. so don't wait, call the number on your screen. or donate at mercyships.org. (♪♪) rsv can be a dangerous virus... [sneeze] ...for those 60 and older. it's not just a cold. and if you're 60 or older... ...you may be at increased risk of hospitalization... [coughing] ...from this highly... ...contagious virus.
not all dangers come with warning labels. talk to your pharmacist or doctor... ...about getting vaccinated against rsv today. >> tech: cracked windshield on your new car? bring it to safelite. talk to your pharmacist or doctor... my customer was enjoying her new car, when her windshield cracked. [gasp] >> customer: my car! >> tech vo: she didn't take it to the dealer. she scheduled with safelite. we have the latest technology for the newest vehicles. and we do more replacements and recalibrations than anyone else. >> customer: thank you so much. >> tech: don't wait-- schedule now. ♪ pop music ♪ >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ did you know most dish soaps don't remove all the grease, even with scrubbing? whaaat? i just cleaned those. try dawn platinum.
it removes 99% of grease and food residue. that's why dawn is trusted to save wildlife affected by oil. dawn platinum cleans to the squeak. nice footwork. that's why dawn is trusted to save wildlife affected by oil. man, you're lucky, watching live sports never used to be this easy. now you can stream all your games like it's nothing. yes! [ cheers ] yeah! woho! running up and down that field looks tough. it's a pitch. get way more into what you're into when you stream on the xfinity 10g network.
one note before ione note ba week from today, next monday i've got a big interview and it former white house aide cassidy hutchinson. she is going to be here a week from tonight, monday night next week. it's going to be her first live interview since she testified publicly before the january six investigation in congress last summer. cassidy hutchinson, as you remember, was the star witness of that investigation. she described the pressure she came under to not testify, to protect trump to not tell what she knew. but you will recall have damning her testimony was of the events of january six itself. cassidy hutchinson has a new book that is about to come out. she is going to be here for her first live interview to talk about it a week from tonigh