gotta tell, you honestly. he's not known as a negotiator or a mediator. he's known as a place where people go to retire after who's. for instance, he bought a president from kurdistan in 2010. so maybe they could hang out together with prigozhin. but it is interesting to me in one respect that he is still 100% loyal to putin. this idea that he's gonna use prigozhin to kind of balance power against putin, i don't see it that way. i see it as a safe place to keep's prigozhin under wraps. >> analysis. >> sure. >> that is all for this monday night. catch me weekend mornings at 10:00 am. "therachelmaddowshow" starts right now. good evening,rachel. >> good evening, ali. i am both glad and worried to have you where you are tonight. thank you for being there my friend. great report this whole hour. thanks for being willing to make that trip, man. we are glad and worried in equal
measure. >> thank you, my friend. enjoy your home. >> thanks to you at home for being with us. before he became the editor of the most important english language magazine in the world david remnick was moscow correspondent for "the washington post" and in fact won the pulitzer prize for his landmark 1993 book about the last time russia fell apart at the end of the soviet union. david remnick will be joining us live in a few minutes as we try to make sense of the latest news that burst out this weekend. everybody in the world trying to figure out whether russia may be falling apart again, whether vladimir putin may be teetering at long last after 23 years of increasingly consolidated, increasingly dictatorial power in russia. david remnick will be joining us live on that story in a moment. we are also keeping eyes tonight on our own supreme court where in the midst of their own
serious and expanding ethics scandals among conservative justices on the court, that court is nevertheless expected to issue yet another round of hard right, very controversial, possibly very unpopular rulings. we've got more on that ahead tonight ahead of what is expected to be a big day at the court tomorrow. we are also watching one particular federal could urt in south florida. tonight the trump appointed judge who will apparently be overseeing the federal criminal trial of former president trump issued an order about witnesses in trump's criminal case over the mishandling of classified documents after he left the presidency. you may remember late last week prosecutors gave trump's defense team a list of 84 witnesses who may end up testifying in this case. prosecutors told the court in court documents that they had handed over that list of 84 witnesses to trump's defense.
now, the reason they've done that is that it is part of the normal sort of pretrial process for criminal court, a criminal case of this type, but also specifically trump and his co-defendant walt nauta are explicitly and specifically not supposed to talk about the case with each other or with anybody else who might be called as a witness so they need to know who else is going to be called as a witness. so prosecutors gave that list of 84 potential witnesses to trump's defense team. they also asked the judge overseeing the case to please put that list of potential witnesses under seal. please keep it secret. well tonight the judge issued an order declining to do that. she turned down that request from prosecutors. we'll get some expert advice tonight in understanding the importance of that, plus there is other stuff to watch here as trump's co-defendant walt nauta is going to be arraigned
tomorrow plus tomorrow is the day a federal judge in the southern district of new york will consider his request to move his other criminal case out of state court in new york and into federal court in sdny the criminal case where he is charged with more than 30 felonies under new york state law related to alleged business records fraud. we're going o get expert help in figuring out the importance of all of those matters tonight. we actually have to start with some breaking news related to the special counsel's indictment of trump on those classified documents charges. when special counsel jack smith brought those 37 federal criminal charges against trump earlier this month in the classified documents case remember these were charges for willful retention of national defense information at his home in florida, also false statements and obstruction. you might remember in the indictment there was sort of at length detail given of a supposed audio recording of
donald trump. o lordy there are tapes. according to the indictment there is a tape from july 2021 when trump was at his golf club in bedminster, new jersey. according to the indictment trump in this recorded conversation is allegedly speaking with a writer who is working on a book about the trump administration and according to the indictment during that conversation trump seems at least toshowthis writer some documents that he says are classified. now, you can't do that. a, you shouldn't have classified documents after you leave the presidency. but, b, you shouldn't be able toshowthem ever to somebody who is not -- has not got proper security clearances and a need to see them. the indictment quotes from this supposed tape. it describes trump showing the writer a piece of paper and allegedly saying, quote, i just found, isn't that amazing?
it's like highly confidential, secret. this is secret information. as president i could have declassified it. now i can't, you know, but this is still a secret. it's crazy, right? i mean if you were inventing, like cartoon level you did it wrong allegations for somebody mishandling classified information you'd dream this up as a hypothetical to teach 1-l law students right? imagine there was a tape in which the accused said, now i'm not supposed to be showing this to you. it's really secret but look. here it is. i mean, it's just a prosecutor's dream to have something like this on tape. but all we could see in the indictment was prosecutor's allegation that this tape existed and that on this tape trump said those things. you know, as an allegation it is
damning. the special counsel is alleging trump improperly held on to classified information, here allegedly was this description of audio evidence of trump appearing to admit he was in possession of secret material. that it is not declassified. it is classified material and he is nevertheless showing it to people who are absolutely not cleared to see it at this meeting at his golf course. thanks to the indictment we've all read the transcript of that supposed recording. but now tonight we can all hear it. because cnn tonight and kudos to them for failing this, cnn tonight has obtained the audio recording of donald trump in which he appears to tell a writer he is knowingly in possession of classified material. i should tell you this is cnn's reporting. nbc news has not authenticated this recording. but if what cnn has obtained is
legit, what it appears to be is the tape that is described in the indictment. the evidence that helped lay the groundwork for special counsel jack smith to indict donald trump. so here it is. i'm going to play the whole thing for you now. listen. >> these are bad, sick people but -- >> that was your coup, you know, against you that -- >> well, it started right at the -- >> like when milley is talking about oh, you were going to try to do a coup. they were trying to do that even before you sworn in. >> well, with milley, let me see that. i'llshowyou an example. he said that i wanted to attack iran. isn't it amazing? i have a big pipe of papers. this thing just came up. look. this was him. they presented me this. this is off the record but they presented me this. this was him. this was the defense department
and him. this wasn't done by me. this was him. also, pages wrong. wait a minute. let's see here. >> i guess, isn't that amazing? this totally wins my case you know. >> mm-hmm. >> except it is like highly confidential, secret -- this is secret information. look at this. you attack -- >> hillary would put that out all the time. >> she'd send it to anthony weiner. >> yes. [ laughter ] >> by the way, isn't that incredible? i was just thinking as we were talking about it. you know, he wanted to attack iran and what -- >> this was done by the military. given to me. i think we can probably, right? >> we'll have to see. >> declassify it.
>> yeah. >> see as president i could have declassified it. now i can't. isn't that interesting? it's so cool. you probably almost didn't believe me but now you believe me. >> no, i believed you. >> incredible right? it brings some -- bring some coax in, please. >> bring some cokes in please. it does give it the ring of authenticity doesn't it? i'llshowyou an example. look. all sorts of stuff. pages long. look. this was the defense department. all sorts of stuff. pages long. look. this is secret information. look. look at this. he wanted to attack iran. these are the papers. trump has since tried to say in subsequent interviews there was no document. i wasn't showing anything. it was just newspaper articles and magazine articles. this was the defense department. these are the papers. this was done by the military.
and given to me. i think we can probably write -- staffer i don't know. well we'll have to see. we'll have to -- trump, declassify it. as president i could have declassified it. now i can't you know. but this is classified. isn't that interesting? it is so cool. can we get some cokes? i mean, let's just draw down on the specifics of this for a second. in jack smith bringing charges against donald trump, the sort of crux of the case, right? is that the prosecution has to be able to prove that trump had classified documents in his possession after he left the presidency, right? that's the illegal activity alleged in the indictment. and here in this part of the tape is donald trump saying he had possession of classified information after leaving the presidency. >> except it is highly
confidential, secret -- this is secret information. >> highly confidential. this is secret information. ha ha ha. this is secret information. look, look. look at my secret information. it is one thing to sort of read these words as part of the indictment. it is another thing to hear it. another key part of jack smith's case against trump is proving not only that trump had these documents in his possession but that he knew that it was no longer in his power as an ex-president to declassify them. right? so, again, part of his sort of purported defense, or part of his attempted defense if he can even call it that. it doesn't even seem that coherent. is to say, yes, these things were classified but i used my mind to declassify them. here he is on tape admitting that he does not have the power to declassify these things and these are still classified.
>> see as president i could have declassified it. now i can't. >> we have a problem. >> isn't that interesting? >> as president i could have declassified it. now i can't, you know, but this is classified. isn't that interesting? it's so cool. it's a lot of things. not sure cool is like in the top 6,000 but this is definitely the kind of thing that sounds like it should end up in a federal criminal indictment. i'll give you that. like i said, cnn obtaining this audio tonight that appears to be the audio from 2021 referenced in the indictment brought against trump in federal criminal court in florida. this describes -- this is where donald trump appears toshowclassified material to a writer at his golf club in bedminster, new jersey. now i should note we have reached out to trump's legal team and campaign for comment but so far have heard nothing back.
trump has been charged with improperly taking material like this when he left the white house and illegally storing it at his home in mar-a-lago. special counsel had described this conversation in detail in his indictment he brought against trump earlier this month but now if this is what it purports to be we are now able to hear it in full. joining us now is barbara mcquaid former u.s. attorney for the eastern district of michigan and professor at the university of michigan school of law. thank you very much for being with us tonight. i am so glad we were able to get you here for this story with this late breaking news. >> glad to be here,rachel. >> let me get your top line reaction. we obviously had some of this tape described in the indictment line for line. there were so ellipses in the indictment. not every line on the tape is reflected in the indictment. it strikes me as potentially
important when trump says explicitly these are the papers. which would seem to cast no doubt on whether or not he was actually holding papers that he was describing to this writer but as a prosecutor as a former prosecutor, as a lawyer, how do you hear this as evidence? >> well i have two reactions to it. one as a former prosecutor it makes my hair stand on end a little bit to see this in the public domain. prosecutors try to keep this stuff safeguarded so you can't have witness tampering and crowd sourcing of defenses. now people can because this is in the public domain. as a matter of evidence this is really powerful evidence. we had seen some verbatim quotes from this recording that was in the indictment but to hear the whole thing play out, i think, is incredible evidence. and at trial, it will not just be this recording that's played in a vacuum. they will have to authenticate this document, this recording with someone who was there. so whether it is the biographer or the publisher or one of the
two staffers, one or more of them will have to be there. and one question i think they'll be asked is did you look at it? because it sure sounds like they are showing it to them and they are actually reading it. so i think it proves a couple things. one as you said, his knowledge and intent which is important here about that he is willfully vile the law, and the other is the incredible recklessness with which he is treating our national secrets. it is a very powerful piece of evidence. >> let me ask you about the fact that when you hear this it seems the person he is in conversation with is looking at the documents. i got the sense, i got sort of that as a vague impression from reading it in the indictment. hearing it that seems much more clear. again, that part of the tape i have a big pile of papers. this thing just came up. look. this was him. mark milley. they presented me this. this is off the record but they presented me this. this was him. this was the defense department and him. and then the person he is
speaking to, the writer says, wow. as if they are looking at the thing he is imploring the person to look at. this wasn't done by me. this was him. all sorts of stuff pages long. look. when the writer, the other person in the room says, wow, it does appear that he wasn't just, you know, waving it in the distance showing that papers existed but rather asking the person to view the content of that material. and that does just as a lay person makes me wonder why dissemination of classified material wasn't charged. it does seem like they've got evidence he showed it to at least one other person. >> yeah, that is how it lands with me as well. and as we said, i think they're going to call that witness. they got this recording from somebody. my guess is it came through some sort of grand jury subpoena or request from the person who was in the room recording it for the purpose of gathering information for this biography. and so certainly it is a separate crime to disclose
classified information to a person who is not authorized to receive it. that could be another charge. my guess is, this occurred in bedminster i believe in new jersey and so it would be technically improper to charge it in florida because there would not be proper venue there. but i know some have suggested perhaps this is a charge prosecutors are keeping in their pocket that could be filed in a separate indictment in the district of new jersey. so that is one possible theory for that. >> barb, let me also ask you about a few developments about to happen quickly over the next in some cases the next 24 hours. tomorrow we are looking at walt nauta, trump's co-defendant in the classified documents case being arraigned in south florida. we are looking at sdny, federal judge in the southern district of new york holding a hearing to decide whether or not trump's state criminal case in new york can be moved into federal court. we also have just had an order from the judge in the classified
documents case rejecting doj's, the prosecutor's request to keep the witness list under seal. in terms of, i notice a lot of things happening at once in a couple different cases, but are any of these developments, things we're watching happening in these cases signaling to you that anything strange is going on, anything concerning? or do they seem like boilerplate developments in cases of these kinds? >> i think they're all sort of expected. certainly the nauta arraignment is nothing unusual. i think even this removal question before the judge is likely to fail and the case will continue though i could be surprised there. you know, the order with judge cannon, i know there has been some outcry that the justice department is not getting the protection it wants, but there is a valid interest in the press in seeing any kind of document that gets filed in court and so i think the judge here is actually correctly noting that prosecutors are not required to file a witness list. i think they're doing it because
the magistrate judge as a condition of release told donald trump not to have any contact with any of the witnesses. and so they could share that document and i believe they have shared the names of the witnesses. what i think they want is the clarity of filing the names, saying to the judge, hey judge, here are the names. and if donald trump contacts any of these people you bet we're going to be coming back to you and asking for some sort of contempt order but asking that those names be kept under seal. understandably wants to protect their identity. but i think what the judge is suggesting in her order is, look. you don't have to file this as a document with the court and if you do it should be a public document. by asking me to seal it you are asking me to do something that is really against the public interest here and the press interest in having access to court filed documents. >> in other words from the perspective of us in the public, if they don't file that list of witnesses with the court we're not going to get access to it so do it that way rather than filing it with the court and then sealing it. >> i think that is right.
which strikes me as the right balance. >> invaluable to have you here tonight. thank you so much, barb. >> let's have some cokes. >> all right. we'll send out for them. all right. we'll be right back. stay with us. stay with us to help prevent bleeding gums. try saying 'hello gumwash' with parodontax active gum health. it kills 99% plaque bacteria. and forms an antibacterial shield. try parodontax active gum health mouthwash. ♪♪ when you have chronic kidney disease... there are places you'd like to be. like here. and here. not so much here. if you have chronic kidney disease, farxiga can help you keep living life. ♪ farxiga ♪ and farxiga reduces the risk of kidney failure, which can lead to dialysis. farxiga can cause serious side effects including dehydration, urinary tract or genital yeast infections in women and men, and low blood sugar.
ketoacidosis is a serious side effect that may lead to death. a rare life-threatening bacterial infection in the skin of the perineum could occur. stop taking farxiga and call your doctor right away if you have symptoms of this bacterial infection, an allergic reaction, or ketoacidosis. farxiga can help you keep living life. ask your doctor for farxiga for chronic kidney disease. if you can't afford your medication, astrazeneca may be able to help. ♪ farxiga ♪ knowing where you came from, it gives you a sense of “this is who i am”. oh my goodness... wow, look at all those! you get hungry for more and then you're just like, “wow, i'm learning about my family.” yeah, yep. which one, what'd you find? lorraine banks, look, county of macomb, michigan? look at grandma... hey grandma!
unbelievable. everybody deserves to know who they are and where they came from. ohhh...cool. this whole journey has been such a huge gift for our family. ♪ ♪
♪♪ voltaren. the joy of movement. ♪♪ wake up, achievers. you're making the most of every hour of your life. voltaren. the joy of movement. except the hours that you're sleeping. so why do we leave so much untapped potential on the table? this is a next level bed, for a next level you. my circadian rhythm is kicking your circadian rhythms butt!
it's not a competition. i know, but i'm still winning! so, it is a competition. the queen sleep number 360 c2 smart bed is now only $899. plus, 48-month financing on all smart beds. shop now only at sleep number   it was a commercial flight, a ryanair flight in may two years ago 2021. the ryanair flight took off from
athens, greece, and it flew north. it was supposed to be a nonstop flight from greece to lithuania about a three-hour flight, three hours five minutes. but on that flight path the last country that you fly over before you get to lithuania is the country of belarus. and once that ryanair flight, that commercial flight about 170 people on board, once that ryanair flight was over belarus, the government of belarus contacted the plane and said you cannot continue your flight. there is a security risk on board. we are sending a fighter jet to escort you down. here. now. you are not going to go to lithuania. we will not let you. you are if our air space and we are going to make you land in the capital of belarus instead in minsk. one woman who was on board the plane told abc news at the time that it was totally out of the blue for everybody on board the plane. she said the crew didn't say anything to the passengers about the plane being forced down and diverted into another country. she said the plane just suddenly
plunged. she said, quote, we all on the plane panicked because we thought we were going to crash. this was a sudden dive, changing the altitude very drastically. it was very violent. i've never felt this on an airplane. everybody was in shock. so the fighter jet forces this passenger airplane down. it lands at minsk. nobody knows why. once they're on the ground bell -- belarusan police storm the plane and grab a guy a 26-year-old blogger, a television channel that was critical of belarus's leader and in support of a protest that had sprung up in 2020 after belarus's dictator really appeared to have lost an election but decided he was going to stay in power anyway. i mean it is an amazing thing, right? in modern day europe this dictator used a mig fighter jet
to force a european commercial flight that wasn't even supposed to be landing in his country, he forced that plane down into his country, specifically to get this kid off the plane so he could throw him in prison. the belarusan dictator did that. his name is alexander lukashenko. even if you've never heard of lukashenko or never in your life given one thought to the country called belarus i swear he is exactly what you are imagining when you think to yourself, what does a belarusan dictator look like? just imagine right? look. magic. exactly that guy, right? giant like comically over sized military hat. regulation size and shape saddam style dictator mustache. he likes to be seen holding guns of all shapes and sizes just randomly and for no reason. makes him feel like a big man. almost as big as when he wears
the big hat. during the nationwide protests against him in 2020 after he stole the election, he put on fake military gear, the kind of generic like amazon prime branded stuff that gets called tactical because it has extra snaps. he put on this little fake military suit and walked around to try to get tough guy point against the women and students who were protesting against his dictatorship in 2020. he is technically the elected president of belarus but was elected in 1994. he has been there ever since. he is the longest serving dictator i mean president in europe and it is not because he gets re-elected in free and fair elections. and forgive me for saying it this way but as dictators go lukashenko is kind of a sad sack
nut ball. he is as weak as he is brutal, which is a bad pairing that goes together all too often. for lukashenko the main hallmark of the later stages of his reign as the longest standing dictator in europe is not just that he kills and oppresses his own people and aggregates all the wealth and potential of his country to himself and his family, it's that he's bowing and scraping subservient to vladimir putin and russia. he is as brutal as he is weak. but the relationship between lukashenko and putin has led to some real weirdness especially in recent months, especially after those protests that could have toppled lukashenko but didn't. especially after putin sent in forces to reinforce lukashenko against the people protesting against him in his own country. since then lukashenko and putin appear to have been trying to
create some kind of super state of their two countries. one in which belarus is sort of more or less willingly subsumed into russia. this has led just within the last couple weeks to russia moving nuclear weapons into belarus. now, that is a big deal. when the ussr dissolved in 1991 all the former soviet states except russia itself gave up their nuclear weapons. this very recent, this month transfer of nuclear weapons from russia into belarus is the first time russia moved nuclear weapons outside its borders since the ussr collapsed. and it is not like lukashenko is like a real stable genius in terms of feeling comfortable that he is now in control of these things. on the occasion of receiving these nuclear weapons,way did lukashenko do? well, he gave a bizarre statement to the press in which he said, if any other country wants to join in this new union he is making with putin they
should just call him up. he said i'm not speaking for putin here, just me, but he says he is pretty sure they'd be happy to take anyone, any other country. so if you want to bring your country into this new union with russia and belarus, lukashenko says in return for you joining their union he'll give your country nuclear weapons as a thank you. again he said he wasn't speaking for putin but is pretty sure putin would go along with it. anybody who wants to join our club i'll give you nuke. this is within moments of getting the nukes. there are no big western news bureaus in minsk we're all taking live shots from on monday nights but in recent months things have been getting increasingly weird in that corner of the world under that increasingly weird, weak, unstable dictator. and now all of a sudden that guy
is the trusted authority. he is the calm hand, the man the world is apparently entrusting with stopping a civil war in the largest country on the planet. that guy. whether or not you were able to pay close attention to the into us this weekend as this all unfolded at lightning speed, we all kind of now know the basics of what happened, right? the crisis centers on this guy yev genny prigozhin, an ex-convict who did years in prison for robbery. after he got out of prison he became a businessman in st. petersburg. prigozhin came into vladimir putin's orbit very early on after putin became president of russia. and prigozhin became one of putin's favorites, kind of a mr. fix it for putin. he took on odd jobs, which is why there is this striking fbi wanted poster for yevgeny prigozhin. he was indicted by u.s. federal
prosecutors after robert mueller's special counsel investigation assembled evidence prigozhin ran this social media troll farm that targeted the u.s. public in 2016 to try to make americans hate each other more than we already do, to support extremism of all kinds, to promote secessionist movements in the united states, to promote violence in the united states, and most centrally to try to get donald trump elected president of the united states in 2016. prigozhin was indicted by federal prosecutors for his role in running that operation around our 2016 election. there remains today a quarter million dollar reward for information leading to his arrest by u.s. authorities because he is under indictment in the united states. that was one of the odd jobs he was able to do for his friend vladimir putin. one of the other things was build putin a deniable private army. so why would putin want a deniable private army when he's
got, you know, the russian army? well, turns out it is helpful, handy sometimes to have guys who don't necessarily claim as your national military. for example, there is a bit after civil war under way in sudan right now. might be weird or at least sort of difficult for the russian government to explain why it was deploying regular russian military troops to assist one of the sides fighting in the civil war in sudan. it is much less controversial for the russian government if instead this random, for profit, private army turns up there, the wagner group. so they turned up to promote russian interests in the sudanese civil war with the russian government able to say oh, we've got nothing to do with it. they've done the same thing in sudan, libya, mali, syria. wherever russia wants to exert armed military influence, but they don't want to explain that's what they're doing with their regular military. also of course ukraine. prigzen's wagner group had a lot
of attention for battle field successes in ukraine but it is not like the wagner group is fighting as an independent force there. prigozhin's wagner mercenaries are basically a private augmentation, adjunct to the russian military. they rely on russian military infrastructure. they can't operate a whole war there on their own. the russian military has to be there, too. but that dynamic has created some friction. since the ukraine war started and russia's invasion of ukraine has gone so poorly from day one, prigozhin has taken on this sort of unsettling new role in russian politics both for putin and for everybody else. he has essentially taken credit for all the russian military victories there have been in ukraine and has gone after the russian military for all the russian failures. and at a time when regular russian citizens are being arrested and prosecuted just for
describing russia's war in ukraine as a war, when regular russian citizens are being arrested and prosecuted not just for holding up signs that say no to war but literally for holding up blank signs that say nothing when regular russian citizens are facing years in prison for making a drawing against the war or even making lists of russian casualties from the war, here is prigozhin, putin's guy running this private military contractor company, talking to social media like every day, showing corpses of russian fighters, screaming expletives against russian military leadership calling them criminals and worse. calling for them to be killed saying the russian elite is corrupt and the war is a lie. why are they letting prigozhin do that? well, friday apparently he hit the end of this rope. he announced in effect a mutiny. wagner fighters versus russia.
wagner fighters took over a military outpost in russia that is key to supplying russian forces in ukraine. they took it over without firing a shot. they were greeted warmly by the russian citizens of that town in which the military garrison is located. and then wagner troops started to advance toward moscow saying out loud that's where they were going. columns of wagner troops going hundreds of miles in a straight shot right at moscow. they got to within 150 miles of moscow. the whole world was bracing for a military coup in red square. putin himself purportedly fled. he left moscow as wagner fighters were closing in. and then prigozhin and his wagner fighters turned around. because apparently, lukashenko, the dufus dictator of belarus was the one who made the call. he made a call to prigozhin to offer a very strange off ramp to this very strange crisis.
the end result is that prigozhin has gone to belarus to lukashenko's country to live out his days? what? i don't know. nobody seems to know what exactly is going to happen to him there or to his wagner group fighters. are they all going to belarus with him? putin gave a speech to the nation from an undisclosed location in which he appeared enraged and said this was all betrayal and treason and there would be no mercy. he just as quickly appears to have backed off that and now gave a speech today saying it's fine. those guys can all just stay in belarus. so obviously there are many questions now. did putin almost just get toppled in russia? i mean a hostile force, a hostile, heavily armed force got within 150 miles of moscow with apparently no resistance whatsoever. so that doesn't seem good even if it was only a dry run, only a dress rehearsal. and what the heck is going on with this other country with
belarus and lukashenko now being in the middle of this? what happens with this immense, well experienced, well armed private army that just tried to mutiny against russian forces and they're now maybe cooling their heels in this neighboring country that's kind of forming a union with russia anyway? are they no longer fighting russia's failing war in ukraine? how did this all happen so fast and what, pray tell, is on the menu of things that may happen next? david remnick joins us live here next. stay with us. ♪♪ voltaren. the joy of movement. ♪♪
do you struggle with occasional nerve aches voltaren. in your hands or feet? try nervive nerve relief from the world's number one nerve care company. nervive contains ala to relieve nerve aches, and b-complex vitamins to fortify healthy nerves. try nervive. and, try nervive pain relieving roll-on. summer. it's the hungriest time of year for kids across america. kids whose hardworking families are struggling to make ends meet. whether it's working the crazy hours so you can have enough money for food or, you know, just giving up things for your personal self, and it's just yeah, gotta feed your kids. far too many kids are missing the meals they need this summer. that's why i'm here now
asking you to join me in helping end child hunger in america for just $0.63 a day. that's only $19 a month. you can help provide healthy meals to power kids through their days. they're growing at this age, and they need the best diet they can have. so please, call now or go online to helpnokidhungry.org right now give $19 a month, only $0.63 a day. and when you use your credit card, you'll get this special team t-shirt toshowthat you're helping kids build a brighter future for themselves and for the world. we want to ensure that all of our kids have healthy meals every day, and many of our parents and many of our communities are still suffering. it's very difficult to, you know, have a good family setting when we are worrying about having enough food for your family.
you can help kids get healthy meals this summer and all year long. please join me in supporting no kid hungry today. for just $0.63 a day, only $19 a month. you can help provide healthy meals to kids across america and in your local community. thank you for giving. thank you for giving. thank you! families are struggling to make ends meet. these are hard times. so please call now or go online to give.
jackie: community schools are so important to us. this is truly what students need. cecily: no two community schools are alike because it goes by what is happening in the community. rafael: we want this to be a one-stop shop for our families that puts parents and students first. kenny: the health and wellness center is a part of our holistic approach. terry: medical, dental, vision, and mental health services. we're addressing the students' everyday needs. kenny: what we do allows them to be the best version of themselves. narrator: california's community schools: reimagining public education. ♪♪ alex! mateo, hey how's business? great. you know that loan has really worked wonders. that's what u.s. bank is for. and you're growing in california? -yup, socal, norcal... -monterey? -all day. -a branch in ventura? that's for sure-ah. atms in fresno? fres-yes. encinitas? yes, indeed-us. anaheim? big time. more guacamole? i'm on a roll-ay. how about you? i'm just visiting. u.s. bank.
ranked #1 in customer satisfaction with retail banking in california by j.d. power.   before he became editor of "the new yorker" magazine david remnick was moscow correspondent for "the washington post." that experience helped form the basis of his pulitzer prize-winning book about the collapse of the soviet union. it doesn't look like we are now facing another russian collapse but i think this weekend we just went through the closest thing to it since the fall of the soviet union. joining us live now is david remnick. really good to see you. thanks for making time to be with us tonight. >> great to see yourachel. that was quite the wind up and the questions are all the right ones. >> good. i am first of all i do not expect you will associate yourself with my term dufus dictator and i am sort of sorry i said that about mr. lukashenko. let that not be put on you or your reputation.
>> just a dufus. >> yeah. i mean yes. as brutal as he is weak and ridiculous. but i mean, what do you think happened this weekend? i get the sense that a lot of us were wondering if it was a coup and then it started to look more like it was a mutiny, which is something that happens within military forces. now i'm not quite sure how to think of this. >> i think in foreign policy terms they call this a grave miscalculation. that is the euphemism for it. what you had was a protegee of putin, somebody that grew up in the, if putin's st. petersburg, they are con testimony prairies. this guy spent nine years in jail for breaking into apartments. that is yevgeny prigozhin. when he got out of jail he started selling hot dogs in the park and then opened up some restaurants and was lucky enough to have a customer naped vladimir putin who became his patron and to have vladimir
putin as your patron it turns out is a very lucky thing. you become extremely wealthy. you become extremely powerful. you enter what is called putin world, this personalist regime that all depends on the great dictator. the problem is one of his enterprises, the wagner group, went to his head because he had some successes or so he thought in ukraine and he felt betrayed by the regular army and started speaking out like crazy on telegram and other means and people started hearing about this in russia and they thought this was fantastic. here is this popular new guy who is winning some battles in ukraine and he curses just like putin used to before he got all fancy. and this went to prigozhin's head and he thought he could make a move on the defense secretary and the general staff and by implication putin himself
and possibly to become a successor. do i think that he thought he could enter red square and take over the kremlin like in some bad movie or like in august, 1991? probably not. but he certainly thought that he was capable of raising his own profile and power. and he miscalculated horribly but nobody has miscalculated more horribly than putin himself who now has three enemies. the ukrainian people who are embarrassing him now for a year and a half, the west, which used to hold him at least in careful regard and now sees putin as a prime enemy, and now figures in the russian power structure itself. so he is at war on three fronts. it is terribly expensive in life and in treasure, and his power is now in greater jeopardy than it's ever been in 23 years. so nobody wins.
>> david remnick, i'm going to take a quick break here. we have to take a break and then i'll come back. i have much more to ask you including what is going to happen to prigozhin's private army, which we don't know if he gets to take with him on his all expenses paid trip to lovely minsk. we'll be right back with david remnick right after this. stay with us. after this stay with us shingles. some describe it as pulsing electric shocks or sharp, stabbing pains. ♪♪ this painful, blistering rash can disrupt your life for weeks. a pain so intense, you could miss out on family time. the virus that causes shingles is likely already inside of you. if you're 50 years or older, ask your doctor or pharmacist about shingles.
what do we always say, son? liberty mutual customizes your car insurance... so you only pay for what you need. that's my boy. ♪ stay off the freeways! only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ hey bud. wow. what's all this? hawaii was too expensive so i brought it here. you know with priceline you could actually take that trip for less than all this. i made a horrible mistake. ♪ go to your happy price ♪ ♪ priceline ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
♪ get it with gurus. cargurus. we're at war. -detonators charged. there's a chance that when we push that button, we destroy the world. we're in a race against the nazis. i have no choice. is it big enough to ead the war? to end all war? 7... 6... 5... 4... 3... -it's happening, isn't it? 2... 1... your bug spray should take out bugs, not keep out people. unlike other sprays that stick around, zevo goes from kill to clean in just seconds, plus it's safe for use around people and pets. zevo. people-friendly. bug-deadly. known as a passionate artist. known for loving the outdoors. known for getting everyone together. no one wants to be known for cancer,
but a treatment can be. keytruda is known to treat cancer. fda-approved for 16 types of cancer, including certain early-stage cancers. one of those cancers is triple-negative breast cancer. keytruda may be used with chemotherapy medicines as treatment before surgery and then continued alone after surgery when you have early-stage breast cancer and are at high risk of it coming back. keytruda can cause your immune system to attack healthy parts of your body during or after treatment. this may be severe and lead to death. see your doctor right away if you have cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, diarrhea, severe stomach pain, severe nausea or vomiting, headache, light sensitivity, eye problems, irregular heartbeat, extreme tiredness, constipation, dizziness or fainting, changes in appetite, thirst, or urine, confusion, memory problems, muscle pain or weakness, fever, rash, itching, or flushing. there may be other side effects. tell your doctor about all your medical conditions, including immune system problems, if you've had or plan to have an organ or stem cell transplant, received chest radiation,
or have a nervous system problem. keytruda is an immunotherapy and is also being studied in hundreds of clinical trials, exploring ways to treat even more types of cancer. it's tru. keytruda from merck. see all the types of cancer keytruda is known for at keytruda.com, and ask your doctor if keytruda could be right for you. hi, i'm katie. i live in flagstaff, arizona. i'm an older student. i'm getting my doctorate in clinical psychology. i do a lot of hiking and kayaking. i needed something to help me gain clarity. so i was in the pharmacy and i saw a display of prevagen and i asked the pharmacist about it. i started taking prevagen and i noticed that i had more cognitive clarity. memory is better. it's been about two years now and it's working for me. prevagen. at stores everywhere without a prescription.   we're become with david remnick editor of "the new
yorker." it strikes me there are sort of three indelible things that will be sort of changed forever based on what happened this weekend in russia. one of them is prigozhin telling russia and telling the world that putin's war in ukraine is not for the reasons that he said it was. he said, this war wasn't needed to return russian citizens to our bosom nor to demilitarize or de-nazi fy ukraine. the war was needed so a bunch of animals could simply exult in glory. someone telling the truth like that from his perch in russia seems indelible. the fact that putin fled moscow when wagner troops were marching on moscow is indelible and the other thing that seems indelible here is the question that is, the fact that it's left unresolved what happened to the mutineering forces prigozhin appears maybe to have brought with him to belarus.
those who participated in the armed revolt are at large and we don't know what happens to this military force now >> i think you've nailed it entirely. look at the contrast between the way zelenskyy reacted to an invading russian army. what did he do? remember his line? i don't need a ride. i need arms. and he stayed on the streets of kyiv and he took selfies and he addressed the people with courage and good humor. as opposed to putin, who disappeared for many, many hours at a time. i don't know that he fled moscow. usually he works out of a compound outside of moscow or a palace in sochi. it is not quite like the white house. but what's been punctured here in all three of the things that you express and i think you have it exactly right is the wizard of oz like sense of mystery and power and all knowingness that he projects to the russian people directly and through his
propaganda. that is shattered or at least badly, badly wounded. and for a dictator, for a dictator that is everything and now that's in question. >> david remnick, editor of "the new yorker" and guy i most wanted to speak to with these unfolding events this weekend. david, thank you for making time to be here. i appreciate it. >> great to speak to yourachel. >> all right. we've got much more ahead tonight. do stay with us. th us. your clott keep getting more damaged the more times you wash them. downy protects fibers, doing more than detergent alone. see? this one looks brand new. saves me money? i'm starting to like downy. downy saves loads.
- this is our premium platinum coverage map and this is consumer cellular's map. - i don't see the difference, do you? - well, that one's purple. - [announcer] get the exact same coverage as the nation's leading carrier. starting at $20. consumer cellular. my a1c was up here; now, it's down with rybelsus®. his a1c? it's down with rybelsus®. my doctor told me rybelsus® lowered a1c better than a leading branded pill and that people taking rybelsus® lost more weight. i got to my a1c goal and lost some weight too. rybelsus® isn't for people with type 1 diabetes. don't take rybelsus® if you or your family ever had medullary thyroid cancer, or have multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 2, or if allergic to it. stop rybelsus® and get medical help right away
if you get a lump or swelling in your neck, severe stomach pain, or an allergic reaction. serious side effects may include pancreatitis. gallbladder problems may occur. tell your provider about vision problems or changes. taking rybelsus® with a sulfonylurea or insulin increases low blood sugar risk. side effects like nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea may lead to dehydration, which may worsen kidney problems. need to get your a1c down? you may pay as little as $10 per prescription. when i was diagnosed with h-i-v, i didn't know who i would be. but here i am... being me. keep being you... and ask your healthcare provider about the number one prescribed h-i-v treatment, biktarvy. biktarvy is a complete, one-pill, once-a-day treatment used for h-i-v in many people whether you're 18 or 80. with one small pill, biktarvy fights h-i-v to help you get to undetectable—and stay there whether you're just starting or replacing your current treatment. research shows that taking h-i-v treatment as prescribed and getting to and staying undetectable prevents transmitting h-i-v through sex. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects include a buildup of lactic acid
and liver problems. do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your healthcare provider. common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache. no matter where life takes you, biktarvy can go with you. talk to your healthcare provider today. so, you've got the power of xfinity at home. now take it outside with xfinity mobile. biktarvy can go with you. like speed? it's the fastest mobile service around. with the best price for two lines of unlimited. only $30 bucks a line per month. that's hundreds in savings a year when you wave bye to the other guys. save hundreds a year on your wireless bill over t-mobile, at&t and verizon. and right now, get up to $1000 off select samsung phones. switch today.
one last thing before i go. i have a new podcast. it is called before i go. i have a new podcast. it is calledrachelmaddowpresents data news. it's only six episodes altogether. episode number three just came out today. you know how republicans say the election was stolen, and it was all voter fraud, and they are sure they can prove it, but they never do. they ran that exact same play almost exactly the same way in the