process and listen, there have been a number of controversies and scandals. in recent years, at the court, as you. no i'm sure everybody watching tonight is familiar with them. this one is a little different, i think, because it is really about all nine justices. >> jody, the new york times, fascinating reporting. i was have you got to come out and talk about it tonight. >> thank you. >> that is all in on this monday night, therachelmaddowshowstarts right now, good eveningrachel. >> good evening, chris thanks my, friend much appreciated. i >> certainly assist our, really happy to hear you with us here tonight. we've got a lot of news to get to tonight, including some late i have to tell you tonight nbc news obtained this remarkable video from security cameras at a dance hall in alhambra, california. this is from saturday night, this weekend. you see the man in the knit cap there. this is saturday night. it is just after that man you saw there in the knit cap.
this is just after he's believed to have walked into a ballroom dancing studio in monterey park, california and opened fire. he shot at least 20 people, 11 of whom now died, 9 of whom are still hospitalized with their injuries. the suspected gunman got away after that massacre in monterey park. he then grove to this facility you see here in alhambra, california. this appears to be a foyer at another ballroom dancing facility a few miles away from the monterey park massacre in the city of alhambra, california. can we drop the chiron there. brandon tsay did not know when this man walked in the door of his workplace carrying this gun that that man just committed a massacre minutes before at a different facility. he was at work. he was unarmed himself. but he saw that man walk into this workplace holding this gun. and mr. tsay wrestled with him. he fought with him. he single handedly as an unarmed person got this gun away from the man in this. you can see here with his back to the camera wearing the knit cap. brandon tsay basically got the gun, wrestled with the man for a
long time. this went on for more than a minute. he then chased him out of the facility. you can see here holding the man's gun away from him. in doing this, in overpowering the man and then chasing him out of this facility, brandon tsay presumably saved other lives that might have otherwise been lost this saturday night. the man who he chased out of that facility was found by police the next afternoon in a van dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound. but 26-year-old brandon tsay is being hailed by l.a. police tonight as a brave man who saved many lives. again, he himself was unarmed when he just reacted, ran at this guy, managed to take this guy's gun off of him. itself is remarkable that brandon tsay didn't shoot the man. he threatened to shoot the man, but he did not. he kept the gun himself and he chased him off and he called the
cops. congresswoman judy chu remits monterey park, california where the massacre took place this weekend. she served as month park's mayor. congresswoman judy chu will join us live tonight in just a moment. i mentioned at the very top that
we are following some news just breaking right now. we are just getting word, i'm sorry to say, of another mass shooting in california tonight. initial reports are that 7 people have been killed in the half-moon bay area in california. it is just immediately south of the san francisco bay area on the coast. what we are learning tonight is four people were killed at one site and another three people were killed at a second nearby site. the suspected shooter is in custody. he's described as a 67-year-old asian male. the 7 victims are being described by a city council person from half-moon bay. they're being described as chinese farm workers. but, again, that is word of just one local council person from
half-moon bay. we are pursuing more information on that story. again, this is just terrible news out of half-moon bay, california tonight. they do have a suspect in custody and they, therefore, believe there is no additional threat to the public tonight in half-moon bay. but 7 people are reportedly dead. authorities are asking police -- excuse me, asking the public to avoid highway 92 between highway 1 and highway 35 and half-moon bay as this investigation tonight continues. again, two different sites, 7 people found dead already. now, at this point, we do not have any indication of any possible link between this mass shooting in northern california tonight. half-moon bay, as i said, just about -- just south of san francisco bay area on the coast. we don't know of any link between this shooting in half-moon bay and the saturday night shooting in southern california. but with 11 people dead in southern california, 7 people dead in northern california over a 72-hour period, it appears to be asian americans targeted in both cases. this is obviously very disturbing. as i said congresswoman judy chu
who represents the monterey park area in california will be joining us live in a few minutes, but we will let you know more as we learn more with this developing story.   also, i have to tell you we have something new to report this hour on a story that i admit we have not spent much time covering before now, even though you have undoubtedly heard a lot about it. ever since the north shore leader, a small newspaper in long island, new york, was first to break the news and then "the new york times" broke it wide open, ever since those papers started the reporting on a newly elected republican congressman named george santos, there's just been a hurricane of coverage about the amazing number of fake stories he appears to have made up about himself. the also amazing number of con jobs he appears to have been involved in in his young life. it's just become this astonishing litany.
i mean, he apparently lied about where he went to high school. he lied about where he went to college. then he lied about going to a different college. for one of the colleges he lied about, he also lied and said he was a volleyball star there. why would you even lie about that? he lied about having an mba. he lied about working at a wall street bank. he lied about being a landlord with more than a dozen properties in his family real estate portfolio. he lied about being the employer of not one, not two, but four separate people he says were killed in the pulse nightclub shooting in 2016. he lied about creating an animal charity. he lied about his mother being in the south trader on 9/11. he lied about his grandparents escaping the holocaust. he lied about himself being jewish. he also lied about himself being ukrainian. and that's not all. but that's a flavor of it. and it shows you the amount of
coverage there has been about this story already. this is nevertheless the new republican congressman from the third congressional district in new york state. kevin mccarthy just gave mr. santos a seat on the small business committee and also the committee on science, space and technology. it shows you just how much the new republican congress values those concepts. hey, put george santos in charge of national policymaking on those subjects. to be fair, he did get on the space committee by telling kevin mccarthy he was an astronaut. i mean, why is there any reason to doubt it? but as i said, this is not a story that i have spent a lot of time on. mostly, honestly because it's just had plenty of other coverage from all quarters since it started unspooling in this detail. but tonight i will talk about this story for the first time tonight. we do have something new to add to this story. video that we have obtained exclusively in which republican congressman george santos adds yet another astonishing claim to his big, long list of all the
rest of them. we have obtained video in which congressman george santos says he is the victim of an attempted murder. an attempted murder that resulted in him being put under police protection because the murderer might come back for him after missing him the first time. also, he says in this video that someone stole his shoes in the middle of fifth avenue in new york city, specifically at the corner of 55th street and 5th avenue at 3:00 p.m. somebody took his shoes. not the same people who were trying to murder him. apparently that was separate, but who can say? in any case, that's coming up tonight. we will have that for you in a moment. i don't exactly consider it to be a major contribution to the news of the world, but it is new. we willshowyou that.   there is also some real national security news on a
couple different fronts out of washington today. first, as amazing as it is to say, there have been four more convictions on seditious conspiracy charges on the u.s. capitol. i say this is astonishing because people don't get convicted of it often. "the washington post" i think got this exactly right tonight when they described seditious conspiracy charges as, quote, rarely used and even more rarely successful. that is definitely -- that has been true for the last 80 years or so in the united states, but the way things are going with the justice department right now, that kind of assessment may need to be revised. before now, before the trump era and the january 6th attack, americans really were only charged with something as serious as sedition very, very rarely. and when the government did try to bring charges that serious, they repeatedly found it very
hard to get a conviction. i, for example, just did a whole podcast series called "ultra" about the biggest sedition in 1994. those defendants were caught building bombs and stealing weapons and planning armed violent attacks and assassinations to overthrow the u.s. government. they were taking instruction and funding from the hitler government in berlin. i mean, the various defendants in that 1944 sedition trial were caught doing all this stuff. and that sedition trial still collapsed and all the defendants got away and just melted back into the sauce of american ultra right extremism. the history of charging people with sedition, it really has been a severely uphill thing for the u.s. justice department throughout modern u.s. history. but apparently that's changing now in the wake of the january
6th attack on the u.s. capitol. less than two months ago, two leaders of a pro-trump right wing para military group, the oath keepers, were convicted of sedition conspiracy, as shocking as it was. now tonight, less than two months later, another four members of the oath keepers were also convicted on those same charges. and that shows not only that the justice department is getting to be increasingly adept at getting charges that serious, it shows that both the leadership and both the rank and file members of these trump para militaries are proving to be vulnerable to this very, very serious charge. the oath keepers guys who were convicted today included at least one guy who took part in that military style stack formation that moved through the crowd of the rioters up the steps of the capitol to go breach the capitol building. at least one member of that military stack was among those convicted today of sedition conspiracy. the men convicted today also include another guy who was overseeing the huge arsenal of
guns and ammunition that the oath keepers had stashed at a virginia motel just across the potomac from dc. it was what they called a quick reaction force. they wanted those guns rushed into d.c. when they decided it was time to start the shooting. one of the guys was also convicted of seditious conspiracy today. in total, though, it is six different members of the oath keepers who are now convicted by juries of seditious conspiracy in two different trials. and there may be more of these guys to come. five members of a different pro-trump military group, five members of the proud boys are still on trial in the same federal courthouse where the oath keepers were convicted today. the proud bays are facing seditious conspiracy charges as well. that case is still underway. meanwhile, in other things, what
this means for the history of this era is that efforts, particularly on the political right, to dismiss the attack on the capitol as a prank or as something that was -- that sort of went awry, those will butt up against the cold hard fact in at least two different jury trials, juries found people participated in that event to have participated in an effort to overthrew the u.s. government by force, which is what sedition means. so at least we're getting the history of it right. despite efforts already to try to whitewash it. the other big national security story we're following tonight is an absolutely shocking arrest and indictment of a senior fbi counter intelligence official. i mean, this story is legitimately shocking. do you remember the name oleg deripaska from the mueller investigation around paul manafort, the now convicted felon who served as campaign
chairman for the trump campaign in 2016. if you are not familiar with a lot of different russian names, it can be hard to remember these things. i feel like he is one of the more memorable ones if only because we heard his name so many times amid the whole russia scandal. when we learned in the lead-up to the 2016 election that russia was messing with our election to try to help trump get elected, one of those -- the single most bananas revelations of that time period was more bananas than that photo of trump's national security advisers sitting at an event with vladimir putin in russia. it was more bananas that the revelation that even though trump said he had no business dealings in russia, on the night of the third presidential candidate debate, trump signed a letter intent to build the biggest project of his life in moscow. the revelation about oleg was more bananas than all of that.
in terms of revelatory moments in the middle of this scandal, this sticks out to me as the one that was the most astonishing thing to learn in the moment that i learned it. it was march 2017. an associated press report, so this is a public report after we had already learned in 2016 that russia has intervened in our election in every way they could to get trump into the white house, in march 2017, this ap report crossed the wires saying that trump's campaign chairman, paul manafort, had been paid on a multimillion dollar annual multiyear contract to promote the interests of the putin government in the united states and around the world. i mean, the guy running the trump campaign while russia is trying to get him elected, that guy is on a multimillion dollar
annual contract to promote putin's interest? is this -- yeah. the man reportedly paying manafort to promote the kremlin's interest in the united states was an oligarch named oleg deripaska. they were in business together for years and years and years. oleg deripaska is all over the mueller report. his name appears in the report on what russia did in the 2016 election. his name is in that report more than 300 times. he ended up getting sanctioned by the u.s. government for his key role in russia's efforts to mess with the 2016 u.s. election. that's oleg deripaska. and now look at tonight's headlines. former top fbi official in new york charged with aiding oligarch. prosecutors say charles mcgonigal worked secretly for oleg deripaska. again, he's back. for the craziest of all possible reasons. here is the headline tonight. former senior fbi official accused of working for russian he investigated. charles mcgonigal is charged with money laundering and other accounts connected with oligarch oleg deripaska. he was a senior u.s. intelligence official until late 2016, just before the 2016 election, in october of 2016, they moved him to the new york field office to be the special agent in charge of counter intelligence there.
mcgonigal was arrested this weekend at jfk airport. they indicted him in d.c. for taking hundreds of thousands of dollars from an albanian intelligence officer while he was on the job at fbi headquarters in d.c. they also indicted him in new york where he's charged on being on the oligarch's payroll and taking steps to hide it. he is sanctioned by the u.s. government so nobody in the united states should be in business with him anymore. charles mcgonigal retired from
the fbi after 22 years in 2018, the same year deripaska was sanctioned by the u.s. government. he is charged with being on deripaska's payroll and getting paid directly starting in 2021. deripaska was criminally charged with evading sanctions last
year. the fbi raided two homes associated with deripaska, both in new york and d.c. but, i mean, what of that investigation now? because now this special agent in charge, this senior fbi official who supervised and participated in investigations of russian oligarchs including deripaska, now he is charged with secretly working for that same guy and secretly taking money from him. as the times notes tonight, this shows, among other things, that the reach of russia's oligarchs can extend even into the heart of u.s. law enforcement. these revelations in these indictments also raise huge questions about the incredibly sensitive counter intelligence information that this fbi official had access to. i mean, he was a very senior counter intelligence official. among other things, he was reportedly the lead fbi investigator looking into why it was that u.s. intelligence assets were getting arrested and
murdered in china all of a sudden. i mean, these were people who were losing their lives to work with our country. the guy charged with investigating how it was that they were being exposed and how it was that they were starting to get murdered, he himself was allegedly being paid by foreign governments and spies? i only know what i read in the spy books and what i read in the indictments. but from a national security perspective, this seems very bad. it also just seems very, very unusual. joining us now is someone who really does know these things and not just from spy novels, mary mccord served as the top national security official at the u.s. department of justice. she's executive director of the constitute at georgetown law school. it is a pleasure and an honor to have you here tonight. thank you for taking the time. >> thank you for having me. >> first let me just ask you if what i just described as the mcgonigal case is fair. just looking at this as someone that reads the news and can read the public facing documents here, it just seems this must be
an incredibly rare and unusual thing. this is a senior fbi official from the counter intelligence side of things charged with being paid by people he was investigating and people with ties to foreign governments and foreign intelligence services. this seems like kind of a unicorn case. >> well, you know, any time that you have a law enforcement official at any level, federal, state, local who abuses the trust placed in them by virtue of their position, you know, that's a very bad thing and it is very dangerous for public safety and it really erodes the feeling of americans and the ability to have faith in their law enforcement. but this is magnified so many times because this is an astonishing abuse of that trust
when you are talking about somebody not only betraying his office and putting americans at risk in terms of public safety here in the u.s., he is actually doing this on behalf of foreign adversaries. and this is somebody who threw his job was cleared, i'm sure, at the very highest levels in terms of our classified information, privy to sensitive information about intelligence collection, about what adversaries such as putin and the russian government, such as in some cases the chinese government, privy to the various tactics and techniques that they have utilized to mettle in various u.s. affairs. and this is somebody who had access to all of that. and now to learn that not only did he betray that trust after he left the fbi but also while he was still in the fbi, it's really staggering. and i'm very glad to see that the department and the fbi has come down hard on him and, you know, with indictments in two different jurisdictions for multiple crimes, serious crimes. and you're right, i have not seen this very often.
so far there is no espionage charges, and i hope there never will be because i hope there will never be any evidence that he actually provided the information he was privy to to any of our foreign adversaries, but this is very, very serious in so many ways. >> now i should mention that charles mcgonigal did plead not guilty to the charges filed against him in new york. if he is found guilty and convicted just on the statutory sentences associated with the statutes under which he's charged, he's looking at potentially decades in prison, and it is serious for all the reasons you described. i do find myself wondering today, whether or not he is convicted, is this potentially a problem for any of the counter intelligence prosecutions that he played a role in? for example, just when it comes to oleg deripaska, we know the
fbi raided homes associated with mr. deripaska last year. we know he's been charged with trying to evade sanctions. we know that mr. mcgonigal involved in the association as well as other oligarchs has been compromised in many ways. does that potentially blow up some of the cases or all of the cases he was involved in during his time in the fbi? >> well, i would add to that the d.c. indictment also alleges that he was being paid by someone who later was actually a cooperating witness, a witness for -- in an investigation he was engaged in. so it gets -- the plot even thickens. but you are right, the department of justice will be doing an analysis of cases that mr. mcgonigal had a hand in, either as a supervisor or investigator and will be looking carefully to see if there is any compromise or any brady information, that would be information that the government is obligated to provide to
defendants who have been charged with crimes where he may have, you know, had a hand. they will be looking to see if there is anything they need to disclose, whether they need to dismiss cases. and, of course, you know, whether even in past cases there is anything they might need to disclose. now, i will say this. in counter intelligence, unlike so many other areas of what -- of the fbi's work, much of that work does not actually result in criminal cases. the counter intelligence agents that i worked with, they would have been the first people to say to you we don't really want any of our cases to end in charges. we want to keep acquiring the intelligence that we need to try to keep the u.s. safe from national security threats from our adversaries. and, so, it is not the area where you see many, many, many charges. you don't even see nearly as many as you see with respect to counter terrorism and terrorism cases. and certainly nothing like what you see in other sort of run of the mill criminal cases, even conspiracies, even white collar conspiracies and drug
conspiracies. those are areas much more focused on investigating a crime for a counter decision. counter intelligence is about long-term intelligence, understanding the tools and techniques of our adversaries so we can better counter those threats. >> i'm sorry. that's a good news/bad news thing in terms of potentially blowing up any cases that are actually charged or made their way to court but also has potentially long-term and international consequences in terms of national security. mary mccord who served as acting assistant attorney at the department of justice, now at georgetown law school. thank you very much for your time and expertise tonight. it is very invaluable to have you here. >> you're welcome.   all right. much more ahead here tonight, including, as i mentioned, that video we have obtained where congressman george santos makes yet another astonishing claim to add to the list. this is exclusively you haven't seen anywhere else. we have that next. stay with us.
before dexcom g6, my diabetes was out of control. i was tired. not having the energy to do the things that i wanted to do. before dexcom g6, i was frustrated. all of that finger-pricking and all of that pain, my a1c was still stuck. there is a better way to manage diabetes. the dexcom g6 continuous glucose monitoring system eliminates painful fingersticks, helps lower a1c, and it's covered by medicare. before dexcom g6, i couldn't enjoy a single meal. i was always trying to out-guess my glucose and it was awful. (female announcer) dexcom g6 is a small wearable that sends your glucose numbers to your phone or dexcom receiver without painful fingersticks. the arrow shows the direction your glucose is heading:
up, down, or steady, so you can make better decisions about food, insulin, and activity in the moment. it can even alert you before you go too low or when you're high. oh, the fun is absolutely back. after dexcom g6, i can, on the spot, figure out what i'm gonna eat and how it's gonna affect my glucose. when a friend calls and says, "hey, let's go to breakfast," i can get excited again. after using dexcom g6, my diabetes doesn't slow me down at all. i lead line dancing three times a week, i exercise, and i'm just living a great life now. i have eight grandchildren. now i'm able to keep up with them again. we're not afraid anymore. it's so easy to use. dexcom g6 has given me confidence and control that everything i need is right there on my phone. if you have diabetes, then getting on the dexcom g6 is the single most important thing you can do. once a patient gets on dexcom g6, it's like the lights come on. (david) within months, my a1c went down to 6.9. (earl) my a1c has never been lower. (donna) at my last checkup, my a1c was 5.9.
(female announcer) dexcom g6 is the #1 recommended cgm system, and it's backed by 24/7 tech support. call now to get started. you'll talk to a real person. don't wait, this one short call could change your life. (bright music) are prostate concerns keeping you awake? force factor prostate helps reduce nighttime bathroom trips and promote a normal prostate size. "i feel like myself again." rush to walmart for force factor prostate, from the #1 fastest-growing men's health brand in america. (tony hawk) skating for over 45 years has taken a toll on my body. i take qunol turmeric because it helps with healthy joints and inflammation support. why qunol? it has superior absorption compared to regular turmeric. qunol. the brand i trust.
♪ every search you make ♪ ♪ every click you take ♪ ♪ i'll be watching you ♪ - [narrator] the internet doesn't have to be so creepy, the duckduckgo app, lets you search and browse pria blocking most trackers all forf your search history is never tracked, so it can't be shared. and when you leave search, duckduckgo helps keep companies from watching you as you brows. join tens of millions of people making the easy switch by downloading the app today. duckduckgo, privacy simplified. (upbeat music)
so at the top of theshow, i went through a long but definitely not exhaustive list of the known lies of freshman republican congressman george santos of new york. you are probably familiar with the greatest hits by now, the volleyball star and wall street fortune and all that stuff, right. here is something you have not heard before. did you know that congressman george santos also claims he was the target of an assassination attempt, which required him being put under official police protection. that is what george santos claimed last month in an interview with a brazilian podcast. it is called rodeo novella presenta. i want you to see it. in this interview, then congressman-elect george santos is speaking with the host in portuguese, so we have subtitles it. he starts off talking about an
alleged act of vandalism, which he says was targeted at him simply because he's a republican. but then in the midst of that, he says, oh, also someone tried to murder him. >> we have already suffered an attempt on my life, an assassination attempt. there was an assassination attempt, really? then congressman-elect george santos did not elaborate on his claim in the interview. we have tonight reached out to congressman santos' office to get more information about him saying that he was the victim of an attempted murder, getting new york police detection at his home as a result. we have inquired about this claim from him.
we have not heard back. mr. santos did offer more detail about a different act of violence he says was committed against him. in this interview he says he was the victim of a very, very, very brazen mugging in the middle of the day in the middle of one of new york city's busiest thoroughfares.
>> it is surreal what we live through here. yes, surreal is one word for it. the podcast host interrupts him there. santos says there was 3:00 in the afternoon. i was going to my car and i was mugged. my robbed me, took my briefcase, took my shoes and my watch. the host then interrupts him and says, they stole your shoes in the middle of fifth avenue, really? the podcast host actually say they later asked george santos for the police report for his
mugging on the corner of fifth avenue and 55th street at 3:00 p.m. in the middle of the day when they took, among other things, his shoes. but they say they never heard back from him when they asked for the police report. we have also asked congressman santos' office for that police report. we will let you know if we hear anything. we have put in a records request for any police report that matches what mr. santos described. we can hope. but perhaps the most magnificent moment of this interview comes when congressman santos tries to explain to these podcast hopes why it is that he personally takes such a hard line toward undocumented immigrants when he,
himself, comes from a family of immigrants. watch. >> i'm critical of people that want to start their american dream the wrong way. imagine starting a relationship with a lie. imagine starting a relationship with a lie! imagine how awful that would be. because, of course, he would never lie. your republican congress at work. republican congressman george santos.
and we'll be right back. ah, i can't. ah, my toes! ah, how much further? turns out, it is hard walking a mile in someone else's shoes. and it turns out the general is a quality insurance company that's been saving people money for nearly 60 years. i can't, i gotta go, ah let's trade back. for a great low rate, and nearly 60 years of quality coverage - make the right call - and go with the general. forreal? they just need new laces.
(tony hawk) skating for over 45 years has taken a toll on my body. i take qunol turmeric because it helps with healthy joints and inflammation support. why qunol? it has superior absorption compared to regular turmeric. qunol. the brand i trust. i'm jonathan lawson here to tell you about life insurance through the colonial penn program. if you're age 50 to 85, and looking to buy life insurance on a fixed budget, remember the three ps. what are the three ps? the three ps of life insurance on a fixed budget are price, price, and price. a price you can afford, a price that can't increase, and a price that fits your budget. i'm 54, what's my price? you can get coverage for $9.95 a month. i'm 65 and take medications. what's my price? also $9.95 a month. i just turned 80, what's my price?
$9.95 a month for you too. if you're age 50 to 85, call now about the #1 most popular whole life insurance plan available through the colonial penn program. it has an affordable rate starting at $9.95 a month. no medical exam, no health questions. your acceptance is guaranteed. and this plan has a guaranteed lifetime rate lock so your rate can never go up for any reason. so call now for free information and you'll also get this free beneficiary planner. and it's yours free just for calling. so call now for free information.

we have breaking news tonight of the sort that is hard to take. tonight in half-moon bay, california, which is 40 minutes south of san francisco, authorities say 7 people have been shot and killed. another person inj one, three more victims found in another. two nearby sites. they believe it was the same shooter in both mass killings.
authorities say they have a suspect in custody. they're identifying him as a 67-year-old man named zhao chunli. they say they do not believe there is an ongoing threat to the public. again, a suspect in custody in conjunction with what appears to be 7 murders in half-moon bay. one member of the city council is telling the press that all seven victims are chinese farm workers. we are trying to chase that down further. but we're talking about two big mass shootings. two gun massacres in the same state in less than 48 hours, both targeting asian americans with an astonishing 18 people dead between these incidents.
as i said, this is just absolutely gut wrenching, this news from half-moon bay tonight follows the dreadful news from monterey park california, los angeles, this weekend. after a long chinese lunar new year celebration on saturday in monterey park at 10:20 p.m. on saturday night, a shooter entered into a ballroom dance studio less than a block away from where the lunar new year festival had been held in monterey park. he opened fire, killed 10 people on the spot. one of the people that was wounded in the attack since has died in the hospital. that brings the death toll from this attack in monterey park with 11 with 9 people still hospitalized and injured. he then went ten minutes north in alhambra. there a 26-year-old working at the front desk somehow managed to wrestle the gun away from the shooter. he charged at the shooter and
wrestled with him and got the gun away and chased the man away and called the police. sunday morning, the police identified the shooter's van. they surrounded it. but before they could get to him, he apparently shot himself inside the man. authorities identified that man as a 72-year-old man. a man named huu can tran. he was reportedly a regular at the dance halls, which are a popular spot for older residents in monterey park. we don't know of any motive yet, but law enforcement tells the l.a. times that mr. tran had recently showed up at his local police department with allegations of fraud and theft saying his family tried to poison him. we don't know what to make of that, but tonight there are 18 families in california grieving their loved ones. joining us now is california congressman, julie chu. congresswoman chu, thank you for being with us tonight. i know this is a really, really, really dark time. >> i am now doubly horrified
after hearing about what happened at half-moon bay. i didn't think that i could even have the capacity for being doubly horrified. but i just cannot believe that all this is happening. >> yeah. and to be clear, we don't know of any link between these two incidents. there is nothing that we have seen to suggest that these two things are connected. but obviously the asian american community in california has to be absolutely reeling and terrified. there is something that is -- that is in a multiplicative way terrifying about multiple incidents tarting asian americans in such close proximity. you are such an important asian american leader and political leader in general in congress right now. i'm wondering if people are looking for leadership from you right now, what you have to tell them about the fear that people are understandably feeling. >> well, it has been a tough 24
hours here when i first heard about the shooting. it was 6:00 a.m. yesterday. and i immediately went to the monterey park city hall to find out what was happening. fortunately there were so many in law enforcement that came and worked to find the shooter and to find out what happened, but the loss of life was just absolutely stunning. nonetheless, people in the community were terrified because the shooter was still loose. they didn't know if they could go to their lunar new year celebrations in other places and whether this shooter would also kill them. they didn't know if they could send their kids to school. well, finally, at 5:00 p.m. yesterday, the sheriff announced that the suspect had been caught and that he had killed himself, and we did breathe a sigh of relief. but what i've been telling the community is you are safe.
this killer is no longer alive and it is important for us to come together as a community, first of all, we have to truly support the families of those who were killed and also those who were still trying to recover, some of whom have very, very serious injuries. we have to make sure they have the financial means to be able to survive this, but also the emotional support. and so there is actually a vigil tonight and tomorrow night as
well as a gofundme site that will do exactly that. but we also have to come together as a community. we need to support one another because this is a fearful time, an anxious time. but i believe that this community is resilient and that if we work together, if we come together, we will be stronger, and we will get through this. >> you have such a long history in monterey park, having served on the city council there, having served as mayor there, having worked on activism there when there was racist organizing in the '80s when they were trying to single out monterey park as some sort of threat to white communities as a community that was emerging as an asian
american stronghold. in terms of supporting the families directly affected here, can you tell us if all of the families have been notified now in terms of their loved ones who have been killed or who have been injured. are there people in monterey park waiting for news or does everybody at this point know and it is a matter of recovery? >> well, we went to the crisis center this afternoon and as of that time, there was one family yet still to have yet the legal notification, so i felt that they were well on the way to having them all legally notified. but i want to tell you that the news of this is so devastating that actually they had to bring the paramedics out because one family just could not handle it. so, yeah, it's so sad. and the families right now are kind of in a fog. i mean, it is just hard to comprehend all of this that is changing their lives so drastically. so that's why they need the support. they need the whole community to be behind them.
>> california congresswoman, chair of the congress than asian pacific caucus, congresswoman judy chu, we're so sorry for the loss of your community. thank you for being with us tonight in terms of what your community needs in terms of national support, people will be looking to you to convey that and the country is lucky to have you. thank you. >> thank you for this. appreciate it. >> we'll be right back. living with hiv, i learned that i can stay undetectable with fewer medicines. that's why i switched to dovato. dovato is for some adults who are starting hiv-1 treatment or replacing their current hiv-1 regimen. detect this: no other complete hiv pill uses fewer medicines to help keep you undetectable than dovato. detect this: most hiv pills contain 3 or 4 medicines. dovato is as effective with just 2. research shows people who take hiv treatment as prescribed and get to and stay undetectable can no longer transmit hiv through sex. don't take dovato if you're allergic to its ingredients,
or if you take dofetilide. taking dovato with dofetilide can cause serious or life-threatening side effects. hepatitis b can become harder to treat while on dovato. don't stop dovato without talking to your doctor, as your hepatitis b may worsen or become life-threatening. serious or life-threatening side effects can occur, including allergic reactions, lactic acid buildup, and liver problems... if you have a rash or other allergic reaction symptoms, stop dovato and get medical help right away. tell your doctor if you have kidney or liver problems, or if you are, may be, or plan to be pregnant. dovato may harm your unborn baby. use effective birth control while on dovato. do not breastfeed while taking dovato. most common side effects are headache, nausea, diarrhea, trouble sleeping, tiredness, and anxiety. detect this: i stay undetectable with fewer medicines. ask your doctor about switching to dovato.

tomorrow at noon eastern time, a very important and
potentially very interesting court hearing will get underway in atlanta, georgia where a judge will hear arguments about whether we the public will get access to a report recently completed. they have been investigating whether laws were broken when former president trump and his allies pressured officials to change the election in georgia and to send change forged documents related to electors from georgia. this special grand jury did an eight-month long investigation as to whether or not laws were broken over the course of those events. two weeks ago, they wrapped up their work. they wrote a final report on their findings. tomorrow a judge will decide if that report will be released to the public or whether it will be kept under wraps while the fulton county district attorney
makes her decision on whether she is, in fact, going to seek indictments. there is a group of media organizations that filed a brief with the court arguing it should be made public. the judge overseeing the case says the grand jury itself wants the information to be pubic. we don't know what the judge is going to decide. but that hearing will start at noon eastern in atlanta tomorrow. should be fascinating. watch this space. watch this space for a great low rate, and nearly 60 years of quality coverage- go with the general. plan a didn't work out? get plan b one-step. plan b helps prevent pregnancy before it starts, and it won't impact your ability to get pregnant in the future. find it yourself in the family planning aisle no prescription, no id. i've got this. ♪♪ before dexcom g6, my diabetes was out of control.
i was tired. i've got this. not having the energy to do the things that i wanted to do. before dexcom g6, i was frustrated. all of that finger-pricking and all of that pain, my a1c was still stuck. there is a better way to manage diabetes. the dexcom g6 continuous glucose monitoring system eliminates painful fingersticks, helps lower a1c, and it's covered by medicare. before dexcom g6, i couldn't enjoy a single meal. i was always trying to out-guess my glucose and it was awful. (female announcer) dexcom g6 is a small wearable that sends your glucose numbers to your phone or dexcom receiver without painful fingersticks. the arrow shows the direction your glucose is heading: up, down, or steady, so you can make better decisions about food, insulin, and activity in the moment. it can even alert you before you go too low or when you're high. oh, the fun is absolutely back. after dexcom g6, i can, on the spot, figure out what i'm gonna eat and how it's gonna affect my glucose.
when a friend calls and says, "hey, let's go to breakfast," i can get excited again. after using dexcom g6, my diabetes doesn't slow me down at all. i lead line dancing three times a week, i exercise, and i'm just living a great life now. i have eight grandchildren. now i'm able to keep up with them again. we're not afraid anymore. it's so easy to use. dexcom g6 has given me confidence and control that everything i need is right there on my phone. if you have diabetes, then getting on the dexcom g6 is the single most important thing you can do. once a patient gets on dexcom g6, it's like the lights come on. (david) within months, my a1c went down to 6.9. (earl) my a1c has never been lower. (donna) at my last checkup, my a1c was 5.9. (female announcer) dexcom g6 is the #1 recommended cgm system, and it's backed by 24/7 tech support. call now to get started. you'll talk to a real person. don't wait, this one short call could change your life. (bright music)

okay. i'm done, but you for sure want to watch lawrence tonight. for sure. there are three democrats in congress who republicans are apparently going to try to block from serving on committees. in this next hour, lawrence is going to have all three of those democrats on live. also, rue bin gallego, congressman, progressive democrat. gallego announced today he will challenge kyrsten sinema for her seat in the senate, which should be a battle royal. "way too early" is up next.   did you say anything during this encounter? >> no, his facial expression, eyes did most of the talking. >> what did the eyes tell you? >> he told me he want to do harm. like he was troubled individual
trying to