was there when you won a great victory. you enjoyed it together, and now, i'm sure, she'll be watching you from now on. good luck to you. >> so, while empathy is in short supply in todays political climate, it's a reminder to consider what others might be going through this holiday season, and maybe, despite your disagreements, as a reminder of just how much it would mean to you reach out. that is it for me tonight. therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. hi,rachel. forward to that. just a reminder of humanity even with disagreement, which is sometimes hard to remember in this time. >> yeah, and it is the thing that most frustrates the people who want us to forget that for their own political purposes, but it's the only way out. you're right, jen.
thanks my friend much appreciated   and thanks to you at home for joining us this hour it's really good to have the capital of the great state of mississippi is jackson. the airportpi of jackson, mississippi, is called jackson medger wily evers international airport. it's named for medger evers, the civil rights leader. he was a decorated u.s. army veteran in world war ii. after he came home from the war, after the united states supreme court ruled on brown vs. board of education in 1954 racial segregation was of course supposed to end in american public schools. as you know, it did not. six months, after brown v. board they named him the first ever field secretary of mississippi so he could lead their efforts in that state to organize
against segregation, to organize for civil rights. in 1963 medger evers was murdered. he was shot in the back in his own driveway. he was only 37 years old. but now37 the jackson, mississippi, international airport is named for him. and just a few days ago on thursday the jackson medger evers international airport had a veryin serious scare. they had a bomb threat that caused the whole airport to be searched for explosives. that happened on thursday. and then that same day there waa another bomb threat to the airport in tupelo, mississippi. and then there was another bomb threat that same day to the airport in hattiesburg, meat mississippi, and then there was another bomb threat that same day to the airport in t gulfport-biloxi, mississippi, ox all on thursday, at least two of those four mississippi airports were not only searched for explosives they actually had to
be evacuated and shut down. that was all on thursday. and then it was the synagogues, also this was on thursday. in addition to the four airports including the big one at jackson, the state capital, he there were two mississippi synagogues that had bomb threata phoned in that same day. in tupelo, mississippi, and in columbus, mississippi where the rabbi at temple b'nai israel didn't even bother calling the local c police. he immediately called the fbi directly as soon as he got the bomb threat. the synagogue was closed down and searched by bomb sniffing dogs. both of those synagogues upped their security. that was on thursday. and then there was this weekend. saturday morning 7:00 a.m., or daphne, alabama, which is not far from mobile, alabama, the ob rabbi there early saturday morning gets a bomb threat. it says there are bombs in er place, they are well hidden. they will go off in a few hours.
he calls in the police. the police bomb squad comes in, clears the building. at congregation mayim chayim. another offered to open its own doors and let the congregation of its synagogue hold its services at the church for safety because of the bomb threat at the synagogue. then before 8:30, it's in boulder, colorado. saturday's services are canceled and it's the oldest continually operating synagogue in the city of boulder, colorado. those bomb threats in alabama, in colorado, those were saturday. t then it's sunday. >> following breaking news thisb evening, six out of seven jewish entities in central alabama received bomb threats today. >> several threats were made
against jewish temples across maine today. >> breaking news tonight, a bomb threat called in to a house of worship in hopewell township. >> synagogues in the st. louis area targeted with bomb threats. >> there is concern as missouri now joins other states that have reported threats against jewish communities. security officials say it's clear the motive is to strike fear. >> police in berkshire county are developing a series of bomb threats made against synagogues. >> at least half of the jewish congregations in the state today received an email that said there was an explosive device hidden in the building. >> a spiritual leader received an email stating there were explosives hidden throughout the building which would detonate within a few hours occupied and had to be evacuated at the time while officers in mercer county searched the building with k-9 units. >> new jersey, maine, alabama, missouri, massachusetts.
this was this weekend. we had two synagogues in roswell, georgia, get bomb threat, we had three synagogues in creve coeur and in maine and south portland maine another gets evacuated after it's swept by police. in east lansing they get this threat, there are multiple explosives in the synagogue.n they are well hidden and they will go off in a few hours. you will all die. police in east lansing still today asking for the public's help in identifying who is behind those threats. in salt lake city, utah, early sunday anti-semitic vandalism at a local school and bomb threat sent to the congregation. in alabama, the bomb threats are saturday and sunday. they go to synagogues in usual community centers in dothan,
salem, alabama, auburn, alabama. three different ones in montgomery, including the jewish federation of central alabama. in western massachusetts, bomb threats go to synagogues in florence, massachusetts and pitsfield and massachusetts state police send bomb squads and say statewide more than 30 synagogues and jewish cultural centers got bomb threats this weekend. in florida, state police say it was more than 30 synagogues and jewish community centers in that state as well all on sunday.nil in washington, d.c., just befor, 9:30 in the morning on sunday, the rabbi was teaching class, one congregant opened the door of the synagogue. the congregant opened the door of the synagogue while this class is going on indoors with the rabbi. the congregant notices a u-haul truck parked oddly up against the synagogue. a man gets out of the truck and
sprays something at the congregant and at somebody passing by. the man yells gas the jews. police respond.nd they arrest the man. they evacuate the whole th neighborhood while they search the u-haul. that same day, that same y, synagogue in d.c. got a bomb threat. like all these other synagogues all across the country. and, yes, in mississippi after the threats to the four different airports and to the northern mississippi synagogues on thursday, on sunday the bomb, threat was to the largest o synagogue in the whole state, in beth israel congregation in co jackson. they had emergency responders on site all day, all services and programs canceled. they know what to do at beth israel in jackson. they've had to do this before. in 1967, which was just four years after a klansman murdered medgar evers in his driveway, in jackson in 1967 the klan also bombed the beth israel synagogue
in jackson. the very same synagogue that was evacuated for the bomb threats this weekend. beth israel and jackson was bombed by the klan in 1967, the rabbi the congregation had his housei bombed that year, too. and, you know, yesterday it all comes back, evacuated again. bomb threats.ts across the country there were hundreds of them. this too is part of the climate right now in the united states a of america. this too is what it's like in our country right now. within just the past few days the attorney general in the state of massachusetts and the attorney general in the state of new hampshire both announced new legal action against a a self-proclaimed neo-nazi group i that has been menacing people in both those new england states. we'll speak with the attorney wi general of massachusetts about that case, about that strategy,o about what law enforcement's options are when it comes to, you know, what are intended to be incidents of terroristic menace targeting minorities and groups that get scapegoated and
people who get blamed and demonized and spotlighted for d intimidation and threats and on violence. we'll talk live with massachusetts attorney general about that tonight. but beyond the four corners of the legal system, this is also something that has a purpose, right? people do this for a reason. this isn't like a compulsion.'t this isn't something that people can't stop themselves from doing.ms just born of personal prejudicep but do it for a reason, they do this because they think it works for them. this advances them toward the goal they want. how does this kind of terroristic menace work? what does it accomplish? why is this a political tactic? sometimes it's easier to see in other time periods or in other time places than it is to see in our own. so consider this, it is from our
country but it's from a long time ago, 1939, 1939 a congressional committee took testimony, very high-profile testimony, got a lot of ot attention at the time. they took testimony from one of the most famous army generals in the united states, his name wasa general george van horn moseley, until not long before this committee testimony the general had been the deputy chief of staff of the u.s. army. very, very, very senior person in the united states military. deputy chief of staff of the army. he goes before the congress and hebe testified in 1939 that he believed there were more than 6 million communists in the united states of america and more than 90% of them had to be jews. by then the general had put himself forward to the leading fascist groups in america as a potential military dictator for the united states which is what they were working for and which isg hat he thought we needed in this country.
and why would we need a dictator instead of our democracy? well, general moseley told the congress, the first thing i would do if i was in the white house, gentlemen, i would issue an order immediately discharging every communist now in the government of the united states. he told congress i believe in watching our breed in america very carefully. he said hitler and germany solved the racial problem. by 1939, general moseley was publicly advocating and speaking toward publicly advocating for the sterilization of all jewish immigrants in america. this man had been deputy chief of staff of the united states army.th 1939. the following year in 1940, 17 members of the christian front were arrested and put on trial for sedition. they had stolen u.s. military ti weapons. they had stockpiled quite a lot of bombs for a plot to overthrow
the u.s. government by force, again, it was huge news in the country at the time. the christian front planned to kick it off by murdering congressmen particularly jewish congressmen and then they planned to bomb jewish and left-wing sites in new york city which they hoped would set off some kind of communist, violent reaction. they expected there would be an ensuing emergency, there would be enough tumult and violence in the streets that there would be a state of emergency, it would result in at least a temporary military takeover of the civilian functions of government and that would put them in a position to install a military dictatorship in the united states. i they thought if you could just i lump together the jews and the communists, well, that would sound so bad and so scary to thd whole rest of the country, it would justify almost anything in response. it would justify throwing out our whole system of government on basically an emergency basis to stop this terrible threat and then they could get rid of
democracy once and for all, put somebody in there who would run things more along the lines of the leaders they admired in al europe. republican congressman hamilton fish of new york famously went to germany in the eve of world war ii, the over of the united states getting involved in worlr war ii, he spent considerable time with the nazi government flying around europe on the private airplane of the nazi la foreign minister.st he led a high-level nazi agent use his congressional office in washington to run a huge operation that circulated pro-german propaganda throughout the united states. congressman hamilton fish didn't display any public anti-semitism but did contribute to a glowing book length assessment in 1933 about how hitler and the nazis had done the world a huge favor by striking a blow against communism. because, sure, anything's justified against communism, am
i right? if there's some kind of, you know, existential threat that t? not only lurks in the world, but it's coming from here at home, coming from within somehow, m well, you would do almost anything to stop it. you would agree to things you would otherwise not agree to re because it's an emergency. if you get people exercised enough about the threat, if you use just the right words, you get them exercised enough aboutr the threat and who is to blame c and who is to blame for everything, frankly, it doesn't have to be rational, you get fr people emotionally exercised enough about it and get people afraid enough about it and they're liable to do things they would never otherwise agree to. i have this new book out called "prequel: an american fight against fascism" that tells that story because of mosley and fish and that front because i wanted today tell the story right now of how these kind of tactics
have workedof here in the unite states in there past, not just abroad, but here. there were a surprisingly large number of americans here who wanted fascism here in the lead-up to world war ii becauser the same menacing rhetoric and propaganda and scapegoating about jews, the same menacing propaganda about how the only a threat in the world was on the left and we needed to abandon all restraint, all weakness in crushing the internal enemies, , that rhetoric, that propaganda, that language, that political ag tactic didn't just work in the countries that turned into dictatorships, that political ip tactic worked on a lot of americans here just as well as it worked abroad. because it's an effective political tactic. and, you know, nobody is a nazi but a nazi, nobody is hitler but hitler. nobody is mussolini but mu mussolini. there is no point in making and no cause to make any sort of
moderate analogy to the fascist dictatorships of the 1930s. but we are having this weird a moment in american news and politics right now where half ht the country is shouting about how the republican presidential nominee keeps quoting those dictators.s he keeps saying the kinds of things, the exact kind of thingx that hitler and mussolini said as they ascended to and consolidated power. and you see the names of those dictators and you see the discussion of that period in historyer all over the news right now because he is saying those things. he is effectively quoting tel mussolini and hitler in some ofn their most effective propagandae shtick tactics but pointing out he's saying hitleresque and mussoliniesque things turns out to not be enough to make him sq stop saying those things. he doesn't mind being compared to those people. why is he willing to keep saying those things? despite everybody pointing out,b
hey, that's what hitler said, hey, that's what mussolini said. you are don't want to be a hitler or a mussolini, do you? why is it not enough to stop him from using those tactics, from saying those things, from trying to make people think about the world that way? it's not enough because those things work for him.ug there's a reason that it is, you know, it's dictators and authoritarians that talk about their immigrants poisoning the blood of the country. there's a reason they do it, which is that it works on people. it makes people want to put a strong man in charge. to break all the rules and ll destroy those very scary enemy, right? iron fist. there's been all this discussion i know in the past few days about the former president, the republican
presidential front-runner playing this fascist dictator greatest hits mix tape, right? i do want to be a dictator. i will root out the vermin wi amongst us, immigrants are poisoning the blood of our country.e there's been a lot of discussion about that in recent days and there should be.at but pointing out and saying thad sounds dictatory isn't enough. right? why is it that even after th everybody pointed out those wern hitleresque and mussoliniesque statements, he kept doing them? right? these are things he has tried out in the last few weeks. he is now repeating them and putting them in writing, making them part of his regular speeches. why? because they are getting a good response. a good response, a response that he likes. not just the outrage of his he critics which he likes, but the pleasure and support of the people who like him the most. l in a "des moines register" poll this weekend, that poll asked
iowa republicans about trump's recent statements along these lines. the poll asked whether these comments from a trump would mak you more or less likely to support him, iowa republican. and the answers are worth paying attention to. on his claim that immigrants are poisoning the blood of america, which is straight out of "mein e kampf," on the vermin in the united states that needs to be rooted out, which comes straight out of the playbook of mussolini and hitler, even on his pledge to build giant camps to hold millions of people in this country, on those statements, iowa republican voters say as of this weekend that those statements from trump make themf more likely to vote for him, not less. these things that trump is saying right now, they sound familiar, not just because he's going for shock value, not just because he's going for the sh transgressive thrill of saying thing that famous dictators and
genocidal maniacs have said in f the past. the reason these things sound familiar and started to repeat s them and make them part of his regular repertoire is because this stuff works. there's a reason hitler and mussolini said this stuff, too. yes, it has worked here, too, more than we like to remember. which is why i wrote this book this year. it is not just a bad and dangerous thing he's doing that you can stop him from doing by pointing out that it's bad and dangerous. this kind of rhetoric, trying tr turn americans, not just against each other, but to the idea that some -- some people among us are so dangerous that they must be o exterminated, that some threats to us justified terminating the constitution, that justify being a dictator, if only for a day, this is the sort of thing that has a political point. it is designed to make you believe that a democratic system
with checks and balances and the constraint of the rule of law and elections where people are voted out sometimes and divided power within government, those things are not up to stopping these terrible evils that threaten us, the terrible threat that some people among us pose to the rest of us. this stuff is tactically efficient. it's designed to make us think that we need a strong man. we need a tough man.ed we don't need a legal system and all its constraints or a court system or a political process, we don't need politicians, we don't need congress. we need strength, will, action, revenge, broken rules, maybe even violence. these statements are not just supposed to shock you, they're supposed to work on you, to mak you believe we need something new and extreme to deal with our terrible problems, if only for a little while maybe, maybe just a temporary dictatorship. and these tactics have a terrible history of working really well in other countries
and, yes, here in our past. once you realize that it is a political tactic, well, then how do you stop it from working? if it has worked well in the past, what have we learned from the past about how to stop it from working so well again? well, it's not rocket science but it does take work and right now. i mean, i think it should hopefully go without saying that one thing that needs to be done is to refuse personally individually all of us to play any part in any politics that depends on you thinking of your political opponents as monsters. to refuse to participate in any politics that depends on any group in society being seen as a menace, as something that needs to be eliminated or rooted out. it means standing up for any nd group that is being targeted
that way. and, yes, there is a rule for regular citizens in that. thank you to the daphne, alabama, church that offered its church facilities to the local synagogue down the road that had to flee in the face of that bomb threat before its own saturday services this weekend. there's a space there for regular people. but there's also a place for law enforcement, as i said, the massachusetts attorney general is here next. it also means that the legal system has to be both used and defended, right? the legal system needs to play a role in prosecuting crimes, upholding the idea that the rule of law still applies and it needs to be protected from political pressure and intimidation. it also means we need to both
use and defend the political system that we do have that the anti-democratic forces among us want to abandon.do when they attack not just at election results, but election s workers, that is part of ha breaking the small "d" democratic system which makes it easier for us all to imagine throwing it away.al tonight, ruby freeman and shaye moss, two georgia election workers, have sued trump lawyer rudy giuliani again to stop him from defaming and attacking them further after a court awarded af them $148 million in damages for his previous defamation and attacks. protecting people like that, making sure that people like that are both protected and tha the system works for them to gem justice, that's part of it too. standing up for people who are being attacked and scapegoated, stopping violence and le intimidation in the political system, both through solidarity at a regular human level, but also through law enforcement, defending not just the idea of elections as an abstract, but the people who make elections work at a nuts and bolts level,
refusing to give in to the idea that we're somehow different kinds of humans, that we need am iron fist to protect one another -- to protect us from one another more than we need democracy. you can't just object to these tactics and say, wow, that's what dictators of yore have used. it's to recognize that dictators of yore have used those things e because these tactics have beens effective at getting people to want to give up democracy and to put themselves in the hands of a strong man leader instead. it's recognizing that this stuff isn't just offensive, it works and it's not history, it's now and that is what we're going to talk about it tonight in all itt its and bowls. the massachusetts attorney general is here with us next. bh stay with us. h us

i got this $1,000 camera for only $41 on dealdash.
dealdash.com, online auctions since 2009. this playstation 5 sold for only 50 cents. this ipad pro sold for less than $34. and this nintendo switch, sold for less than $20. i got this kitchenaid stand mixer for only $56. i got this bbq smoker for 26 bucks. and shipping is always free. go to dealdash.com right now and see how much you can save.
goli, taste your goals.   you may have seen the news this weekend that alex jones, the florid conspiracy theorist and purveyor of very, very,
manly dietary supplements is trying to figure out a way of getting out of paying almost all of the billion and a half dollars that he has been assigned to pay to the families he was found guilty of defaming, families of the victims of the 2012 sandy hook elementary massacre and filed a civil suit against him for the years that mr. jones spent calling that massacre a hoax. on his media network, that is. a court awarded them a billion and a half dollars in damages from alex jones. mr. jones is now asking them, okay, would you take roughly 3.5% of that instead? how about a 96% discount off those damages? how about i propose to pay you not $1.5 billion but $55 million? that's his offer in bankruptcy court. the sandy hook families, you
will not be surprised to learn, have a different idea. they say, how about instead we liquidate your assets including your media company and give the proceeds to the family. mr. jones would be allowed to keep his house, but alex jones incorporated goes away. permanently. in other words, we don't want to share in your profits, we want your company, which profited for so many years off our grief, we want that company gone. that's one example of what a civil lawsuit can do, a texas judge could soon decide that alex jones' whole media network has to be dissolved. we shall see. another example of what a civil suit can do, the $148 million jury verdict against rudy giuliani for the lies he spread about two georgia election workers, lies about them stealing the election from donald trump, lies that up ended their lives, nobody knows what mr. giuliani is capable of paying or what this judgment
might mean for him and his livelihood but those two election workers filed a new lawsuit against giuliani because even after that $148 million verdict against him, he went immediately right back to spouting the same lies that got him slapped with that huge judgment. we're going to speak with the attorney for those workers here live in a moment. but this broader question of what civil lawsuits can do, what role they have to play in justice in cases like this, it's obviously very live on issues like the alex jones and rudy giuliani cases. civil suits have also, though, been used strategically against, for lack of a better term, neo-nazis. you may recall the civil lawsuit that was filed against the white nationalist neo-nazi organizers of the unite the right rally in charlottesville in 2017 that resulted in a jury award of over $26 million in damages against the organizers. that kind of penalty can restrict the ability of groups like that and put them out of business entirely. keep in mind now that we know we
have a couple new lawsuits, a couple new legal actions along the same lines taken within days of one another, one by the attorney general of the state of massachusetts, one by the attorney general of the state of new hampshire, each of them have taken legal action against the white nationalist group nsc-131, 113? this is how these groups like to be known, these guys by their acronym, nsc, it stands for national socialist club as in national socialism as in nazis, they're self-declared nazis and the group is being sued for violent harassment and intimidation of minorities but they have been engaged in all kinds of activity like this across new england for the past several years. new hampshire filed its first civil suit against the group earlier this year after the
group hung a keep new england white banner off a highway overpass. that suit was dismissed but now the group is facing two of these legal actions in two states. how effective is that likely to be? how good is this as a tactic against this kind of terroristic menace? joining us is massachusetts attorney general andrea joy campbell. her office has just taken legal action against this group in new england. thanks for your time. i appreciate you being here. >> thank you for having me. >> so first of all let me just ask you, i didn't explain it in fulsome detail. did i get the basics right in terms of the idea behind this legal action? >> pretty much. this is like you described, a self-proclaimed neo-nazi group founded here in massachusetts, sadly, that has put out publicly
that they think that new england is and should be only for white people in a certain type of white demographic and we're not going after them because of those beliefs. frankly, i've been saying if they held those beliefs i probably wouldn't attend but that's not why we're going after them. we're going after them because of just the horrific conduct and unlawful conduct of terrorizing folks of different demographics all across the commonwealth, whether migrants, those in lgbtq+ community or anyone and saying that conduct is unlawful and unacceptable here in massachusetts and so we think we have a pretty strong case. we're excited to see new hampshire also launch a complaint which i think is very powerful to have a republican attorney general in and a democratic ag taking on this conduct here and across new england. >> it's an important point that this is a nonpartisan situation
here in new england that we've got a republican ag in new hampshire taking action there under the state's nondiscrimination laws, you're a democrat in massachusetts taking a slightly different approach, but targeting the same group. can you just explain? i'm trying to think big picture and nationwide about the options that law enforcement officials have in terms of using the legal system in constructive ways, both to protect the constitution but also to protect people from this kind of menace. why did you see the advantage here of civil litigation and civil litigation of this kind in a best case scenario, what do you think the impact of the litigation will be? >> so, there are some criminal aspects to their conduct and there have been district attorneys in massachusetts that have attempted to take that on and sometimes unsuccessfully, they're very difficult cases to prosecute. but here we have not only a strong basis under our civil rights law which is quite projective in massachusetts to go after the conduct of this group, but in addition to that, for violations of our trespass laws, nuisance laws and puck
accommodation laws, and our goal is to seek injunctive relief to get them to stop what they're doing patrolling people's neighborhoods, targeting particular demographics and blocking the access sometimes to public spaces, for example, for all of us. i've been telling folks this isn't just about targeting specific groups, this is about blocking access and violating the rights of many residents in massachusetts and those who visit massachusetts, so we think we have a strong case but the other hook that is really important, as we seek injunctive relief here, if they violate our civil rights law in that injunction we can seek criminal penalties so there's a range of options available to us. we're at the beginning stages, but i think it sets the tone that we're going to take on this type of behavior and not just allow it to persist in massachusetts going forward. >> massachusetts attorney general andrea joy campbell. thanks very much for your time this evening. i'm really interested in this case and this strategy. we'd love to have you back as the case proceeds to learn about how it's proceeding, thank you. >> sounds great. thank you.   all right. we've got much more ahead tonight.
stay with us.



so, about 15 minutes, that's how long it took, friday a jury ordered trump lawyer rudy giuliani to pay election workers ruby freeman and shaye moss nearly $150 million for spreading the baseless lie that they rigged the election for joe biden in georgia. about 15 minutes after the jury made that decision, mr. giuliani stepped outside the courthouse
and he just did it again. >> do you still believe that what you said about these two women in the wake of the 2020 election was truthful? do you still believe -- >> i have no doubt -- i have no doubt that my comments were made and they were supportable and are supportable today. >> today those comments by mr. giuliani recited as part of a new lawsuit against him from ruby freeman and shaye moss. it seeks to permanently bar mr. giuliani from persisting in his defamatory campaign against ruby freeman and shaye moss. michael gottlieb is one of the attorneys representing them. thanks for your time. >> thanks for having me on,rachel. >> what would this new lawsuit do that the first one didn't? >> so, the first suit was a suit for both damages and some other forms of relief like declaratory relief.
this is a suit in which we are seeking a permanent injunction to prevent mr. giuliani from saying the same false statements about our clients that he has been making since december of 2020 and which he had a full opportunity to prove to be true if he chose so. he opted out. he defaulted and so after a finding by a jury awarding him damages we don't believe he should be able to continue telling the same lies out on the street that he has been unable to defend and prove in court. >> the massive damages that your clients obtained was not enough to stop him. how would a permanent injunction have more teeth in it than the huge financial penalty he's facing? >> well, it subjects him to the supervision of a federal court. if we are successful in obtaining the injunction which i'm quite confident that we will
be, and he'll have at that point the supervision of a federal judge. any time he violates the injunction he will be held at risk of being held in contempt of court and fines and with potentially jail time and if he continues to do so, so, look, i think the reality here is that really all we wanted rudy giuliani to do is take our clients' name out of his mouth. if he agreed we didn't have to file this but he was unwilling to do it and i think, you know, we'd like him to know that we're serious and we're going to continue to pursue this and all he has to do is agree to stop telling lies about our clients and this doesn't have to be a problem for him. if he's not going to do it he'll be subject to the supervision of the courts and see where that takes us. >> i think a lot of americans have felt emotionally compelled and upset by the harm that was done to your clients the way they were attacked and the way their lives were up ended but there's something beyond their victimization in their bravery in pursuing justice and standing
up and putting their names to their testimony both in court and to the january 6th investigation explaining what happened to them and insisting it's not okay and insisting on pursuing accountability, that includes filing this additional lawsuit even after their triumph in court on friday. i guess i just have to ask you at a human level, how are they? it's one thing to see them made victims in the way that they were, but to see their bravery here is to call on something else yet further from them. how are they and how do they feel about this additional step? >> look, i think they are feeling great following the jury verdict. they feel vindicated. they feel heard. they had their day in court. they had the opportunity to testify under oath and did so knowing that, you know, most people understand that doing so means you subject yourself to invasive discovery, you subject yourself to cross-examination. you really put yourself out there and having done that, to be validated by a court decision
and a jury verdict of this kind, i think, is gratifying. they know there's still work to do. they know and they understand that there's still more fighting to be done to, you know, fully clear their name and to stop people from repeating these same lies over and over again. and they get that. but they are so tough. and they are determined, and they really are an inspiration in how willing they are to continue fighting this fight and as i think if you listen to shaye moss' comments outside of court on friday, you hear that she's doing it for the other election workers out there, the other civil servants out there to let them know that
there is an option for them that they will be protected and to try to stop and deter the other bad actors who are out there from engaging in the same kind of character assassination we have seen far too often in our country over the past years. >> all right. to stand up against what happened to them, to get justice for what happened to them but to stop anybody from ever trying this against anybody else who does this kind of work. michael gottlieb, attorney representing ruby freeman and shaye moss, thank you for your time tonight, and keep us apprised. i know this is an important, new step. >> thanks so much. will do.   all right. we'll be right back. stay with us. k. stay with us have a clue. that's crazy! well, not everyone knows coventry's helped thousands of people sell their policies for cash. even term policies. i can't believe they're just sitting up there! sitting on all this cash. if you own a life insurance policy of $100,000 or more, you can sell all or part of it to coventry. even a term policy. for cash, or a combination of cash and coverage, with no future premiums. someone needs to tell them, that they're sitting on a goldmine, and you have no idea! hey, guys!
you're sitting on a goldmine! come on, guys! do you hear that? i don't hear anything anymore. find out if you're sitting on a goldmine. call coventry direct today at the number on your screen, or visit coventrydirect.com. i got this $1,000 camera for only $41 on dealdash. dealdash.com, online auctions since 2009. this playstation 5 sold for only 50 cents. this ipad pro sold for less than $34. and this nintendo switch, sold for less than $20. i got this kitchenaid stand mixer for only $56. i got this bbq smoker for 26 bucks. and shipping is always free. go to dealdash.com right now and see how much you can save.



we do not get to point out florida as an exam of how our small "d" democratic institutions are supposed to work. florida, a place where things are being done right, that happens very rarely, but bear with me here, i swear that's where this is going. for the past few weeks the florida republican party has been trying to figure out what to go about its state republican party chairman. he has been accused of sexual assault, of rape, and beyond the alleged criminality and the details of the allegation against him are harrowing a search warrant in the case shows that the background of this case is a prior sexual relationship between the accuser, a woman, the florida republican party chairman, a man, and also his wife, the three of them together in a thing. the aforementioned wife of the republican party chairman is a founder of the anti-gay book banning group moms for liberty. she says she personally helped
write the florida don't say gay law, despite what was apparently going on in her own -- yeah. anyway, the combination of the sort of hypocrisy at this epic level and electoral politics here and the alleged crime here is a lot, even by florida standards, and the chairman of the state republican party is still maintaining his innocence, but yesterday the executive board of the florida republican party took action against him. they voted to strip him of his authority as state party chair, they reduced his salary to $1. they censured him and told him to resign. and in one sense you can make of this what you want, whether florida republicans are taking action because their chairman's wife appears to have been, both against and also into the gay at the same time, whether, you know, they're repelled by the specific allegations, whether
they're trying to make this scandal go away so it doesn't cost them in the upcoming elections, whatever. the point here is that the example the florida republicans are setting, political parties turns out are not inert bystanders that have no power when it comes to deciding who gets to be in charge in politics and specifically in their party. political parties can police themselves. even people who fight back against censure, they can still be censured. they can have their salary reduced to a dollar, all of their power can be taken away. political parties are institutions that can play an important role in policing back behavior by political actors. this is how institutions in our small "d" democracy are supposed to work if you want them to.


i'm a little anxious, i'm a little excited. i'm gonna be emotional, she's gonna be emotional, but it's gonna be so worth it. i love that i can give back to one of our customers. i hope you enjoy these amazing gifts. oh my goodness. oh, you guys. i know you like wrestling, so we got you some vip tickets. you have made an impact.
so have you. for you guys to be out here doing something like this, it restores a lot of faith in humanity.   all right, that's going to do it for me tonight. "way too early" with jonathan lemire is up next.   so your initial allegations,