showing the president and first lady walking on the beach in delaware this weekend -- by the way, he also did many, many calls with foreign leaders, and even the pope. but that all seems to come across as silly background noise because that's not what the president's focus is on right now. it's on how to honor the pain of the people in israel, how to prevent a humanitarian crisis in gaza, how to bring american hostages home, and how to prevent a larger war. as it should be. now, ultimately, he will be judged not by anyone remark, even in the primetime address in the midst of all of this. but on what he actually does as president, as he should be. that's how any president should be judged. that does it for me tonight. we will be back here a sunday m. we'll be back at 7:00. stay right where you are. therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. >> that was fantastic. thank you for ending with that. i feel like every once in a while, i get recalled, oh,
right, you're jen psaki. you had that job. >> i'm reminded many times that you'rerachelmaddow. i've been reading your book. it's such an important reminder of history. it scared me a little. it should, maybe. how can this happen? it is so topical at this moment. thank you for writing it in between everything else. >> you are very, very kind to say so. much appreciated. and thanks at home for joining us this hour. i've been happy to have you here. one note before we get started. i know things might look a little different than usual. that's just because i'm doing theshowfrom someplace new. i am in los angeles tonight. i'm at what is essentially the mid point of this book tour for my new book. that's why i'm here. i am not a great traveller. i am not great at this. but i just, before i start the
show, i briefly wanted to say thank you to all the book stores and the venues we've been at and all the moderators who have been on stage with me. thank you in particular to everybody who has come out to one of these events. it has been thousands of people so far which is crazy. but it's just been really nice to be out there at so many events and so many cities to meet people who value thisshow. who love msnbc. i've heard a lot of love from my msnbc colleagues. so it's been fantastic and i do this very, very rarely. and i know that it is a huge amount of work and a pain in the butt for everybody involved in making this happen, in part because i personally am a pain in the butt. it makes me all the more grateful. out of the rest of this book tour, we're about halfway done. there are only two dates left that stiave seats. those are events this week. phoenix on wednesday and tulsa, oklahoma on friday. so if you want to come to either
of those events this we phoenix and tulsa, those two remaining events, you can get tickets. everything else is sold out. i wanted to start with that before we get underway. i will not mention it again. i wanted to say thanks to everyone had a has been so kind and reading the book and coming out to hear me talk about it. that's why things look a little different in terms of this set. we have a ton to get to. it will be a really busy week in the news. tonight, of course, we are coming up on three weeks since republicans fired their own party's speaker of the house. in so doing, they basically got rid of congress. they barely avoided shutting down the whole federal government but then they did shut down the legislative branch of government. the house of representatives cannot function without a speaker. the republicans fired their speaker. they appear to have no idea how to hire a new one. they also appear to have no real urgency about it eat. so we are three weeks in with
government effectively being closed. they're apparently going to try again for a speaker vote tomorrow. we'll talk specifically about how republicans' idea for a plan b sort of trick play they've been hinting they might want to poll to avoid having to pick a leader. that's a trick play that will not work. it is something they cannot do. it puts all the more pressure on them tomorrow. at the same time that drama will get underway in washington tomorrow, up the corridor in new york city tomorrow, aware going to have drama of a different kind. this is likely all going to be happening literally at the same time of day tomorrow. former president trump as you know, he's facing more than 90 felony criminal charges in four different jurisdictions. the case where he's been showing up in court already is none of those criminal cases. it is the civil case against him
and his business that was filed by the new york attorney general. you do not have toshowup for a civil case. former president trump does not have to be there in court for this case. nevertheless, he has been there. and i'm pointing that out because tomorrow we are expecting live testimony in that trial. testimony against him from his former attorney and his former fixer michael cohen. both michael cohen and trump are expected to be there in court in real-time in person. i'm flagging this to you not just because of the expected interpersonal drama, the spectacle of it all, but because trump's role in this case, including his behavior in the courtroom has already been a substantive issue in this case. this is the case where the judge imposed the first gag order on trump after trump attacked a member of the judge's staff. this is the case where the judge hauled everyone into court and
threatened trump with jail after trump's attacks on the judge's staff were nevertheless left up on a campaign website. this is the case where trump was admonished, legally smacked down by the judge because trump became so animated during life testimony from some real estate appraiser that trump could not control himself in the courtroom. he was speaking out loud and gesturing and making a scene in the courtroom which caused the judge to admonish him in the courtroom. so this case has been a little touch and go so far in terms of the former president's behavior. he's used to doing whatever he wants without any consequences his whole life. this case in particular seems to be really bothering him. the judge in this case thus far appears to be quite unimpressed by the former president's behavior. the judge seems to be unafraid to held to former president to the same standards any other defendant would be held in a
federal court civil trial, including just how you need to physically behave yourself when you are in a courtroom. i'm just, i'm pointing all this out because if trump already got admonished by the judge in this case because he was so overwhelmed by his feelings and his anger about some appraiser's testimony, tomorrow he's going to be sitting there through testimony by michael cohen which is likely to be way more provocative and way more upsetting to go former president trump than anything that has happened in the courtroom before. and he's barely been able to hold it together in the cruise missile, in the courtroom. and it is likely to be like the fourth of july. so that's going to be tomorrow. that will happen live in a new york courtroom in front of a judge who does not play. and maybe everything will go smoothly and everybody will be calm, cool and professional.
this is the case where the judge has already threatened to jail trump related to his behavior in this case. so just a heads up for tomorrow. for that, that will likely be happening at the exact same time the house is voting again on trying to pick a new speaker. it is all worth watching for. so i want to start tonight with what feels like it might be an important new stage in the war between israel and hamas. now, we don't want to overstate things. i want to be clear the big picture remains the same. israel in response to the terrorist attack by hamas that killed more than 1,000 israeli civilians has continued its airstrikes inside the densely populated gaza strip. while there has been so much question about when israel will start, in the meantime, they've launched these devastating airstrikes day after day after day. more than 4,000 people in gaza
are believed to have been killed since the israeli retaliation for the hamas terrorist attacks began 17 days ago. civilians cannot leave gaza, even the u.s. citizens who are among civilians there. the first trickle of aid has been allowed in. a small convoy of aid trucks was allowed in on saturday and another convoy was allowed in on sunday and then another small convoy was allowed in today. that is good. that's not enough. that is something. the aid does not provide fuel. the u.n. is raising urgent concerns about the remaining hospitals inside gaza and whether they can keep their generators running, to keep electricity on inside the hospitals to keep things like ventilators running and life
support machines for people grievously ill and also for newborn babies. the u.s. military has moved into the region. there are ongoing worries with other countries and other armed militias. the u.s. embassies in iraq and lebanon have sent out new warnings about the safety of u.s. citizens and u.s. diplomatic staff and their families. all that to say, the biggest of big pictures reminds as precarious as ever. but there is a tiny little piece. we saw two hostages taken by hamas, an israeli american mother and daughter released on friday. tonight two more hostages released. this is two frail elderly israel women. both in their 80s, both held by hamas for more than two weeks. the two were released tonight. there had been some reports today about the potential release of a much larger group of hostages. maybe four dozen or more
hostages potentially set to be release in the some sort of arrangement but nbc has not been able to confirm independently any of those reports. it remains just a glimmer for people trying to maintain hope here. so far only four hostages have been released. joining us found, nbc news chief foreign correspondent richard engel live from jerusalem. thank you for being here. i know it is the middle of the night, 4:00 in the morning there. i really appreciate you. >> reporter: it's always the middle of the night with you. no matter where you go in the country, it's always the middle of the night and it's always talking about something grim. how are you? >> it's true. i'm okay, richard. it's true. we need to come one some other beat that you and i cover together and at better times. let me ask but the hostage situation. obviously, everybody, everybody is overjoyed to see two hostages released on friday. to see two more released today. there was some reporting today
which nbc has not independently confirmed that maybe we should expect additional hostage releases in larger numbers. what is your understanding of that? what do we know about the older women released today? >> reporter: so what aware trying to do is to track these negotiations in real-time through the goshors. obviously, the negotiators are working with hamas. working with the israeli authorities. we're talking about egyptian and qatar negotiators. it is a very difficult process to follow. for security reasons, they don't want to give away too much. they are actively trying to trade things. hamas wants certain things. it wants the, more access for humanitarian supplies into the gaza strip. it wants some of its prisoners to be released. it wants to engage in a resumption of a peace process.
to have a path toward statehood. we're hearing more and more from hamas about its specific demands. i spoke to a senior hamas leader tonight about the specific issues. there is hope that there will be more. and during the day today, i was one of those people who thought, okay, there will be more. there are these rumors, reports of a potentially larger group that could have come out today. but these negotiations don't always go well. and even when these two israeli women were eventually released, hamas released them but sort of issued a complaint saying, we're releasing them even though israel violated the terms of our agreement eight times. and there had been, although we didn't notice it, a mini cease-fire, a pause today according to hamas. and another pause, six hours long in the airstrikes on
friday. so they're negotiating thing big and small. sometime it's just a pause for a few hours, or much larger issues about opening access to the gaza strip, potentially prisoner swaps, potentially more than that. so this could take some time. and every time that there is hope, there is a lot of chance that things could go wrong. that there's another airstrike, a change in complications, communications are difficult because this senior hamas leader told me tonight, the hostages are held in different places. communication from one place to the other is difficult so that they're face go some logistical challenges just to gather these people and try to free them if they want. that could be hamas coming up with excuses. you said, is it a glimmer of hope? yes. at left a there is some movement. at least they're not executing the hostages every hour or anything like that.
there does seem to be some progress. there are lines of communication to hamas. and their efforts are ongoing by friendly nations to try to secure the release of these people. >> rich, it strikes me as a pretty incredible thing in its own rate that you've been in touch with senior hamas officials about this issue. did they explain or did they put it to you in any way that you can convey to us why they took these hostages? if they planned from the outset that they would hold the hostages in order to try to extract conceptions or cease-fire or anything they're asking for now as just the first four had been let go? it almost feels from some of the reporting i've seen, the hostage taking, that hamas didn't necessarily know what they would do with these civilian hostages when they got them. let alone in these large numbers. more than 200 of them.
did they give you any sense, any clarity on what their intentions are in the long run with these people? >> reporter: my interpretation, and some of this is just my analysis having covered this for a long time. covering the middle east, covering hamas for many years. i think they bit off more than they could chew. what we're seeing in gaza is a result of hamas not realizing how far it would get. how devastating its attack would be. how many people they would take. they've also, the group has hinted at that. there was one statement from their chief military spokesman who said that they swept up all these foreign nationals by accident because as people were being dragged over the border, they didn't have a chance, according to them, to verify their identities. and they ended up with too many nonisraelis.
even they acknowledged it was a chaotic time and they ended up with more people than they wanted. on the other question, what do they want to do with them? they clearly intended to take people. to kill people and capture people. but probably not this many and probably not this many foreign nationals bringing the entire world against them. what they want, they want concessions. every time they've taken people in the past they've been able to secure the release of prisoners. many of the top leaders themselves. they were running the group. they. they were prisoners in israeli jails who were swapped when other members of hamas grabbed an israeli soldier and then demanded, part of that, part of the demands was a prisoner release. so the top leadership themselves know this process from personal experience. it secured their own release.
so i think at the end, as we get closer and more and more hostages come out, and hopefully that will happen. hopefully that will happen soon and in large numbers. i think we'll start hearing not just demands about more access for humanitarian aid into gaza and more access for fuel and other things, but they'll start asking for more specifically for the demands of prisoners. and they've already said that as well. one of the hamas leaders i was talking to said in order to release the soldiers, and they make a distinction between the civilians and the soldiers, although here in israel, with hamas, it's quite difficult. a lot of israelis, until they're quite old, can that he tensionally be he rev sifts in this country so who gets considered a soldier is a little up to hamas's interpretation. they've that for the soldiers, not specifying exactly who they consider a soldier. if you're active duty, nonactive duty, serving, in uniform, not
in uniform, they said they want the release of all palestinian prisoners in israeli jails and there are thousands of them. >> richard engel, chief correspondent for nbc news. this has been a day of ups and downs specifically on this issue of the hostages. thank you for keeping us up to date on this. i appreciate it, my friend. >> sure thing. >> we've got much more ahead tonight. lots of news going on tonight. stay with us. going on tonight. stay with us in treatment for chronic lymphocytic leukemia, calquence helps you do the fighting. and you can do the exploring. you can do the splashing... ...the sightseeing... ...and the playing. calquence is an oral targeted therapy for cll. more patients begin with calquence than any treatment of its kind, and calquence is proven to work better than chemoimmunotherapy in patients with previously untreated cll. calquence may cause serious side effects, which may lead to death. these include serious infections with fever, chills, or flu-like symptoms; and bleeding problems that may increase with blood thinners.
decreased blood counts are common and can be severe. new cancers have happened, including skin cancers. heart rhythm problems with fast or irregular heartbeat, dizziness, feeling faint, chest discomfort, or shortness of breath, have happened. tell your doctor if you have bleeding, heart rhythm, or liver problems; infection, or if you are or plan to be pregnant or breastfeeding. calquence helps you do the fighting. and you can focus on the things you're loving. ask your doctor if calquence is right for you. are you still struggling with your bra?
it's time for you to try knix. makers of the world's comfiest wireless bras. for revolutionary support without underwires, and sizes up to a g-cup, find your new favorite bra today at knix.com
hi, i'm michael, i've lost 62 pounds on golo and i have kept it off. and sizes up to a g-cup, most of the weight that i gained was strictly in my belly which is a sign of insulin resistance. but since golo, that weight has completely gone away, as you can tell. thanks to golo and release, i've got my life and my health back.

olam. tikkun olam. in a little more than usual on sunday mornings and this was a sunday morning. october 23rd. and while they were sleeping, a yellow mercedes truck, a multiton truck drove up. it blasted through the not much of a barrier that was supposedly protecting the building. it smashed into the lobby of the building. that truck was driven by a suicide bomber. it had been expertly packed with enough sophisticatededly arranged explosive that's the entire four-story building was obliterated in one flash. with all the american servicemen sleeping on sunday morning inside. three u.s. soldiers were killed in that truck bomb explosion. three u.s. soldiers, 18 u.s. sailors, and 220 u.s. marines. the largest single day loss of life in the u.s. marine corps
since iwo jima in world war ii. it happened october 23rd, 1983. 40 years ago today. soon after, that truck bombing of the marine barracks, the u.s. military left its peace-keeping mission in lebanon. the u.s. government never made an official conclusion as to who was responsible for that attack. there was a group that nobody had previously heard of that claimed responsibility at the time. the u.s. government didn't really seem to know what to make of that claim of responsibility as late as 2001. the man who had been defense secretary at the time of the attack said the u.s. still didn't really know who did it. a civil lawsuit was brought by family members of marines who were killed that day in the truck bombing. that court case resulted in a finding by a federal court that the group responsible was actually hezbollah. that that obscure group that had claimed responsibility back in 1983, they were effectively a front for what we would soon
come to know as hezbollah. the court found that since iran is the country that arms and trains and supports hezbollah, then iran as a country should be held responsible for that attack on the marine barracks at the beirut airport in 1983. today, russia's foreign minister flew to iran, flew to tehran for consultations with the iranian government. this is at a time when the russian government is waging its own war against ukraine, when iran is not only supplying arm to russia for that war against ukraine. iran is also arming hezbollah. so that was nice of russia, right? to do on the 40th anniversary of the beirut barracks bombing, send their foreign minister to visit the iranian government. iran also arms and funds and trains hamas, the group that committed the terrorist attack against israel two weeks ago which killed more than 1,000 israeli civilians, and that set off the ongoing disastrous war between hamas and israel.
what a nice time for russia to be sending its foreign minister to visit with the iranian government. russian dictator vladimir putin just to the back from his own trip abroad in which he had his first meeting with any european leader since the international criminal court issued an arrest warrant for putin. putin defied that arrest warrant. he went to authoritarian china, of course, wouldn't observe the arrest warrant. while in china, he took a meeting with the authoritarian leader of hungary viktor orban. as he continued to block the admission of sweden to nato, as orban continues to let the for ukraine to block themselves against russia. viktor orban is the authoritarian leader of hungary. now, the front runner for the republican party's nomination for president, donald trump, just gave a speech today in which he warmly praised viktor orban, not as the leader of
hungary but the leader of turkey. it is possible that hungary and turkey are kind of the same to him because hungary sounds like hungry, and turkey, gobble gobble, maybe he thinks they're the same. that's the one republicans think is the best choice for america for who ought to be president next year. that's as news broke over the weekend that while he was president before, he allegedly told a random australian guy, not only highly classified sensitive details about our nuclear-armed submarines, details which that man told to 45 other people including multiple foreign government officials and six journalists. in addition tom, he also, we've just learned, reportedly told this random australian dude sensitive details about his own contemporaneous contentious communications with the president of iraq while the u.s. at the time was in the midst of
launching military attacks inside iraq. he's their best idea for who ought to be the next president of the united states. while we are on the subject of things being screwed up in the world, and really screwed up for us in the world, we should also perhaps take a moment to be thankful, at least, that we in america are not personally contending with this guy. this is a politician. he is holding a chain saw. not because he's like cutting branchs on his ranch. this is his political symbol. he brings the chain saw to rallies. he fares it up and revs it. he says he has a chain saw plan for his country. the associated press profiled his election process this weekend, noting that one of his final rallies, he not only did his chain saw thing. he then brought the crowd to a shouting, screaming ovation that
played a video showing bomb blasts and buildings exploding for a few minutes because that's what he's promising for his country. he was expected to win the presidency of argentina in elections there yesterday. with an endorsement from the trump of brazil, former president jairo bolsonaro. chain saw guy was expected to win the arming arch presidency yesterday. but he did not win. he lost by 6 plus points in yesterday's election. that was a loss that surprised everyone. it was still close enough though that he has made it to a run-off election next month. so there is still a possibility that argentina, will you drop that chiron there? yes. there is still a possibility that argentina mate still get this guy as their president. argentina's trump. he unexpectedly lost this weekend.
this is what he's offering and he is headed to a run-off next month. all of which to say, things could be better right now around the world. you can start with the war in ukraine. you can start with the war in gaza. even beyond those terrible, terrible wars involving some of our most important allies, thing are just fraught right now. and here at home, it's relatively easy to look at the international challenges we're facing and say this would be a good time for us to have a functioning congress, for us to have a speaker of the house so the house of representatives could do stuff as needed. that absolutely is true. this is a bad time for the republicans to not be able to fight their way out of a paper bag, and install one of their own number as speaker of the house so we can have a speaker. this is also true. do you notice anything strange
in this image? this is not the house which the republicans have lost control of themselves, and we therefore don't have a working house of representatives. this is the senate where democrats are in charge. what do you notice about this picture? look who is on the foreign relations committee in the united states senate. still. as of today. they took him out of his position as chairman of the foreign relations committee but he is still there. today he was raenld on a felony indictment for allegedly conspiring to work as a foreign agent. an agent of the egyptian government. he pled not guilty today. he released a statement insisting on his innocence but this is the same u.s. senator who is already recently indicted on federal felony charges to commit extortion. now he's charged as an alleged foreign agent. and while he is under indictment on those charges, he is continuing to serve on the
senate foreign relations committee. like this is normal. more than 30 democratic senators have called on new jersey senator bob menendez to resign even though he, too, is a democrat. no republicans have called on him to resign because presumably that's too awkward with their own party's leader indicted on 91 felony charges. but honestly, who cares about whether other people are doing the right thing or the wrong thing? you still have to do the right thing. democrats control the united states senate. i understand they do not have enough votes to expel bob menendez to expel them. it almost never happens. it happened with confederates during the civil war. i get that about the practicalities of expulsion. but leaving him on the u.s. senate foreign relations committee while he is on trial as an alleged foreign agent in this world with what we've got
going on right now? seriously? i honestly do not know why democrats don't want to do this. it would not be hard if they wanted to do it. if they want to kick him off the senate foreign relations committee, kick him off and put somebody else on in his place. that's it. i have no idea why they aren't doing it. but so far they're not. w who i . but here i am... being me. keep being you... and ask your healthcare provider about the number one prescribed h-i-v treatment, biktarvy. biktarvy is a complete, one-pill, once-a-day treatment used for h-i-v in many people whether you're 18 or 80. with one small pill, biktarvy fights h-i-v to help you get to undetectable—and stay there whether you're just starting or replacing your current treatment. research shows that taking h-i-v treatment as prescribed and getting to and staying undetectable prevents transmitting h-i-v through sex. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects include a buildup of lactic acid
and liver problems. do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your healthcare provider. common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache. no matter where life takes you, biktarvy can go with you. talk to your healthcare provider today. you know that feeling of having to rewash dishes that didn't get clean? i don't. cascade platinum plus... with double the dawn grease fighting power and double the scrubbing power. for a no rewash clean... and a cabinet ready shine. upgrade to cascade platinum plus. dare to dish differently.


i could use a little help. yeah, there's a lot of risk out there. huh ♪♪ hey, is this thing hard to learn? nah, it's easy. huh. you know, i think i'm going to ride it home. good thing you chose u.s. bank to manage and grow your money. with our 24/7 support at least you're not taking chances with your finances. yeah, i think i'm gonna need a chair. oh, ohhhh.
so he was speaker of the house of representatives and he was absolutely over it. this is what he said. he said, quote, as you all know, for something like three years, and especiall the last 19 1/2 months, i hav been very closely tied to washington. although i have enjoyed hugely being here with you ladies and gentlemen, i do have the very great desire for a few days sniffing a different atmosphere. this is from the u.s. speaker of the house at the time, sam rayburn, speaking on the floor of congress in 1941. i have a very great desire of sniffing a different atmosphere, as opposed to yours which i am sick of sniffing. he then just spelled it out even more lanely. he said i am homesick. i want to go home tomorrow. and his colleagues in the house of representatives let him. they allowed him to go home to
sniff home. they voted in a temporary speaker, a speaker pro tem so mr. rayburn could go home for a few days and rest up. it happens. a quarter century later, 1966, a similar situation. the speaker of the house wanted to leave town for a few days. he said he wanted to give a speech to the massachusetts state legislature. he said he would have to be away so please vote in a temporary speaker in my absence to take care of business. it was no big deal. people apparently didn't even care that while he was home, supposedly to talk to the state legislature where he turned up in the papers was at a big st. patrick's day parade. what he meant to ask for was, hey, do you mind giving as you new speaker for a few days. i want to go drink green beer if south boston. he didn't put that it way. he asked for a different reason but it was no big deal. it happens. 1939. speaker william bankhead told his colleagues he needed a break
because he was, quote, a little bit tired. they said okay. in 1940 he told his fellow lawmaker that a case of the flu was holding him with great tenacity and he needed a few days off to have the flu. and yes, for when he was tired and for when he had the flu, we got a temporary speaker of the house. it is not uncommon. at least, it's not unheard of to have the u.s. house of representatives elect a temporary speaker for any number of reasons. even sort of cute reasons. even slightly disingenuous reasons about going to parades. but now we're looking at a situation where we're getting a speaker pro tem apparently indefinitely, not because the real speaker is sick but because the republican party is sick. and it has no sign of getting better any time soon. it has been 20 days now, three weeks tomorrow since republicans fired their own party's speaker of the house. that effectively closes the
house of representatives. they can't do anything other than try to elect a new speaker. since they have no idea how they will hire a new one, some people have hoped there might be a trick play out of this. maybe the existence of this man will provide a kind of safety net. a way to get around this problem that they can't seem to solve. congressman patrick mchenry has been acting as speaker pro tem, temporary speaker ever since kevin mccarthy was fired. at the moment, he has no real power other than presiding over efforts to try to elect a new speaker. he's there. he's doing something. there has been talk that republicans might try to invent a new procedure to install him as de facto speaker without anybody having to vote for him. as if this were the moment to start tinkering with the basic constitutional structure of this country. because sure, this republican party wouldn't do anything nefarious with that. for the time being, republicans
seemed to be going about electing a speaker in what passes for a more traditional route. at least trying to elect a speaker. tonight they held a candidates forum behind closed doors. eight members made their case for why they should be speaker. tomorrow house republicans are expected to meet once again in private to try to select the new nominee. being a. in 93 isn't enough. then they have to hold another vote on the floor of the house. that may happen as soon as tomorrow. but at this point, who knows? and the idea that you just get to tell the temporary guy that he gets to be the speaker without anybody voting for him, it won't work. joining us now, the senior national political reporter for nbc news. nice to see you, my friend. thanks for being here. >> thanks. >> do you have any updates for us in terms of understanding where we are in the process right now? >> a few updates.
house republicans met for well over two hours this evening. they had a candidate forum that began with nine candidates who went in and made their case. one of them became the first to voluntarily get off the island, float away on a raft. so there are eight candidates left who will be voted on starting tomorrow. the way the process is expected to work, there will be multiple ballots until someone gets a majority of the conference. that is half the republican conference. in each one, the lowest will be eliminated until someone gets a majority. there is no guarantee whatsoever that the person who gets majority will get 217 out of the 221 republican votes on the house floor. this is the same problem that was scalise and jim jordan. the favorite right now, tom emmer. the next in line. it's unclear if he can get 217 votes. so this process will continue
and continue and continue. your idea about patrick mchenry, the active speaker pro tem being in power, it seem so rational, right? mchenry is well respected on both sides of the isle. he's seen as someone who can at the very least keep this plane in the air while it finds a permanent pilot. the reason it is not that he be is ceremonial. that there has to be a vote to empower him before he can conduct any business, legislation resolutions. even renaming post offices. and democrats have made it clear, they want concessions out of him in terms of how the place is run. catering to the right flank. and some democrats that i've talked to, they don't want to be a champion date on this. so that's the jigsaw puzzle you have with pat mchenry. maile, they are off to the next
iteration. >> does mchenry seem like he would be open to some sort of majority vote that included mostly democrats to give him the speaker ship full stop? i mean, if democrats are saying, we can see a way to installing a speaker who is not a democrat provided we get some power sharing agreements, some other concessions that are meaningful to us, would mchenry stand for the speakership on those terms? >> the short answer is no. he's made clear, he has no interest in that job. he never applied for it. he never ran for it. he happened to be on kevin mccarthy's secret list of the next guy to take the job ceremonially. if this gets to a point where members come to him and say we have the votes. we want to empower you on a temporary basis. it will be hard for mchenry to say no to that. yes, we are 20 days without a speaker but we are 25 days away from a government shutdown.
the closer congress gets to this cliff, the more there is pressure to do something. and to someone can get legislation on the floor so the u.s. is not careening. there will be a need for congress to act and do something. the closer we get to those deadlines, i think the more the mchenry option is surfacing but he's made it clear, he doesn't want that job. >> i can't believe this story is still where it is, and that we haven't gotten further down the story line here. just incredible. appreciate it. >> thank you. >> all right. we have more to come. stay with us. we have more to come stay with us er adults. it's one more step towards taking charge of your health. so every day, you can say, ♪ youuu did it! ♪ with centrum silver.


♪ (upbeat music) ♪ ( ♪♪ )
constant contact's advanced automation lets you send the right message at the right time, every time. ( ♪♪ ) constant contact. helping the small stand tall.
there's something that i think should have received more attention than it has. among the many things the house of representatives can't do right now because republicans can't elect even one of their own number as speaker, among the things the house can't do is it can't take up president biden's request for money for ukraine and israel. there is a third part of that funding request, though, which is languishing that has gotten a little less attention. it includes several billion dollars for security at america's southern border, as well as services for immigrants who are ready will here and
awaiting immigration hearings. while that money depends on congressional republicans getting their act together, there is one change in the immigration system that is set to go ahead regardless of whether they get their act together. it is because it is coming through the courts. a settlement between the federal government and the american civil liberties union, the aclu, looks like it will finally bring at least some closure to one of the darkest chapters of the donald j. trump administration. one of the darkest chapters of our moral lives in this generation. you will recall that under the trump administration's so-called zero tolerance immigration policy, we saw thousands of little kids separated from their moms and dads. taken out of their moms and dads' arms. the children were put into government custody. many of the parents were deported or prosecuted, even though there is been a biden administration task force from day one that has been working on
this. as of at least a few months ago, roughly a thousand kids still have not been reunited with their families. this is due in large part that the trump administration, while they were taking these kids away from moms and dads, they didn't bother to keep which parents went with which kids and where different family members were sent. but now if this is signed off on by a federal judge, family separation will formally be banned in this country. the settlement also provides for support services for those separated from their families when trump was president, including thing like housing and medical care and behavioral health benefits which you might expect they will need for these immigrant families dealing with the trauma of the u.s. government coming in and taking the kids away from their parents. the attorney general merrick garland said this. the practice of separating family at the southwest border was shameful.
the reunification of separated families and provide them with critical services to aid in their recovery. it still needs to be approved by a federal judge. but this is a moral wound that can never really be healed. it happened in your family, it will have multigenerational consequences. at least this. at least this thing which we all lived through that we can never forget happened in our country and our time and which we are therefore at some level required to morally answer for, at least this. at least we're finally starting to bind this up and fix it, at last. last stinging, 5-times-a-day,. ...makeup smearing drops user. i want another option that's not another drop. tyrvaya. it's not another drop. it's the first and only nasal spray for dry eye. tyrvaya treats the signs and symptoms of dry eye disease fast by helping your body
produce its own real tears. common side effects include sneezing, cough, and throat and nose irritation. relying only on drops? not me. my own real tears are my relief. ask your eye doctor about tyrvaya. liberty mutual customized my car insurance
and i saved hundreds. with the money i saved, i started a dog walking business. oh. [dog barks] no it's just a bunny! only pay for what you need. ♪liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty.♪ my skin has been so much smoother so much more hydrated. it's olay! with olay hyaluronic body wash 95% of women had visibly-better skin. and my skin is so much more moisturized. hi, i'm ron reagan, an unabashed atheist. see the difference with olay. and i'm alarmed, as you may be, by the intrusions of religion into our secular government. that's why i'm asking you to join the freedom from religion foundation, the nation's largest and most effective association of atheists and agnostics
working to keep state and church separate, just like our founders intended. please join the freedom from religion foundation today. ron reagan, lifelong atheist, not afraid of burning in hell. nice footwork. freedom from religion foundation today. man, you're lucky, watching live sports never used to be this easy. now you can stream all your games like it's nothing. yes!
[ cheers ] yeah! woho! running up and down that field looks tough. it's a pitch. get way more into what you're into when you stream on the xfinity 10g network.   this is a very busy week in the news. big testimony tomorrow in the trump trial in new york. republicans in congress trying
again tomorrow to pick a house speaker that is beyond everything else that is going on in the world. i mentioned a moment ago, the amazing story from this weekend. former president trump telling super sensitive, highly classified details about our nuclear-powered nuclear-armed submarines to a random australian billionaire who then reportedly told that information to a further 45 people, including foreign government officials and half a dozen journalists. because all the news really is melting into one, here another headline from australia just tonight. look at this. australian prime minister albany is getting his long-promised visit with