president, it doesn't have the power of the purse, it doesn't have the power of the sort. the only thing that makes us obey the court and heat its decisions is our sense that the court is doing the right thing, the court is a legitimate institution. once the public stops thinking of the court in that way, there is really no reason to abide by its decisions. the court's legitimacy is absolutely everything. >> melissa murray, always a pleasure to talk to you. thank you so much. greatly appreciate your insights. that is all in on this monday night. i will be back on saturday, 8 pm eastern, sundays at 9 pm eastern right here on msnbc. therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. good evening,rachel. >> amen, i feel like we were in your very steady hands on saturday night watching you anchor the white house correspondents dinner. i have never seen anybody ring more the white house correspondents dinner. haven't seen anybody wring more news out of that event than you do. it was fantastic. >> i've had the privilege of going but it was different to watch and observe outside of the
room against the backdrop of everything happening in the country and the comedians roasting the elite. >> you did fantastic. my family watched with you. >> thank you so much. >> thanks to you at home, happy may day to all who celebrate. hopefully we all do. this, i'm sorry to say, was columbus, ohio, this weekend. gentlemen, very bravely wearing ski masks, with sunglasses over the eye holes, along with matching little coordinated outfits that made them look like poorly groomed assistant managers at a tire store. they're part of a neo-nazi group. i don't say that general, something i'm surmising from the look but they're not subtle, they're flying a gigantic swastika flag.
what's your point, guys? this was saturday, this weekend, 2023, in columbus, ohio. i want to say it's nothing particular to ohio. we've seen these displays in other states. but if this is ringing a bell, this footage, it may be because this footage here was from a few weeks ago, from march in wadsworth, ohio, outside akron. we covered this when greater akron, ohio, had their own big nazi outbreak. march of this year. last week in ohio we got the announcement of federal charges for another neo-nazi, charged with trying to burn down a church just outside cleveland, ohio. molotov cocktails thrown in an arson attack on a church.
nazi stuff started off as an itchy spot in ohio, but it's not a bug bite, it's a rash, oozing all over, disgusting. it doesn't help to pretend you can't see it, ohio. and it's not hard to follow the plot of what they're doing. in each instance, the nazi groups are turning out in ohio and the purported motive behind the attempted arson at the ohio church, it's to harass and intimidate trans and queer people. with the red pajama suits, swastika flag and guy dressed like heatmiser was outside of a drag brunch to benefit a nonprofit, kaleidoscope youth center. the nazis showed up outside that this weekend. the wadsworthshowof force a few weeks ago was also outside a
drag performance. also the church arson outside cleveland was targeting a church holding family friendly drag events. it's one idea, the nazis in america have their cause. they're doing it in part for the same reason they do it in florida all the time now, in other states. first intimidate and freak people out. also to desensitize us to swastikas and nazi imagery, on the street corners so we're expecting it and not so shocked as we might otherwise be. if you're not down with that, excited by the nazis blooming like stinkweed everywhere these days, it might give you pause if you realize the reason they're turning out, out in the streets, in the public parks, the reason
they keep doing this stuff is that they're cheering on what you've been doing in your day job. that might give you pause, right? if you started to notice what all the nazis were doing, realized they were pulling for your side? in ohio for example. it might give you pause if you were an ohio republican and you've been working on legislation to attack queer and trans people. while at the same time repeatedly, these guys are the crowds turning out to bolster that message and make sure harassment and intimidation of queer and trans people has imprim tur of state law and nazi flair. it's who is allying with your cause. it's not giving the republicans pause. they've been happy to hold
hearings on the new legislation to make the street nazis happy to further target people. to find the sober language for testimony in support of their bill. the testimony in support of their antitrans bill who assured everybody that demons of the underworld were possessing the bodies of those opposed to the bill. a democratic legislator from columbus socially sought to clarify the demonic possession testimony the republicans got for their bill. he did mean any state legislator, who is jewish, muslim, hindu, anything else, is according to him, an expert,
such legislator is possessed by demons and that's why the anti-trans bill is important to him because of the demons. with that settled, the republicans tried to pass the bill to further target trans people who live in their state. in florida, republican legislators there are issuing subpoenas to medical groups for the florida psychiatric society and american academy of pediatrics to harass those medical associations because they oppose the florida legislation targeting trans people in that state. in montana, the republican governor there signed other bill going after trans people, montana the 12th or 14th state to do so in the last months. the governor signed after his
nonbinary son begged him not to and they voted to expel the one member in the legislature who is trans. she's suing to be reinstated. in missouri, the law tonight was blocked by a missouri judge who ruled that a temporary restraining order is warranted against the law for a couple of weeks. the ruling says missouri republicans implementing their new anti-trans law would subject them to immediate and irreparable loss, damage or injury. the missouri court blocking the republican anti-trans law in that state follows the federal department of justice bring a new federal lawsuit against the law in tennessee. that was filed on wednesday last week by the civil rights division of the u.s. department of justice.
then there's the blue states. democratic led states trying to head this stuff off in their own way, in a different way. they're at least trying to provide people some safety, a place to hide from these kind of laws that republicans and their uniformed, ski masked cheerleaders are pursuing everywhere they have power. we saw it happen in minnesota a few days ago. the democratic governor there signing legislation to provide legal protection to people from other states, families and individuals from other states who need help. people who have to leave the state where they live in order to get gender affirming health care or to get an abortion. so if your home state bans the health care you need as a transgender person or bans abortion. one of the republican led states threatening to bring prosecutions against you and your doctor for seeking care, minnesota law officially says
now we will provide you refuge. you can come here, you will be safe here. that's the headline and the lead in the minnesota star tribune -- minneapolis star tribune. new laws make minnesota a refuge for abortion and gender affirming care. people traveling to minnesota for the care will be shielded from legal consequences under new laws signed by democratic governor. minnesota is among the latest but not alone. the democratic governor in colorado, the democratic governor of new mexico recently signed similar shield laws to protect people who are fleeing republican states. to protect doctors who republican states are threatening to come after even in states where abortion is legal. and then there's washington state in the pacific northwest. you might remember a few weeks ago we covered a new law passed by republicans in idaho, and in
idaho the republicans there are not only banning abortion in their state, that's not going far enough for them. no idaho republicans have taken it a step further, passed a law that would try to ban idaho residents from leaving idaho to get an abortion somewhere else. this means idaho republicans are explicitly threatening to bring prosecutions against doctors in other states for providing abortions to idaho residents while they're not in idaho. like your state's politics stain you personally and you're never allowed to wash it off. the idaho ban threatens their own state residents for leaving the state, threatens anyone helping an idaho resident leave the state, and threatens doctors in other states where abortion is still legal.
an incredible thing that idaho republicans are trying to do. but i was struck when we were covering this before, the personal put my name on it intervention from the democratic governor of the state that borders them. jay inslee. while idaho is considering that bill, which they passed. he wrote to his republican counterpart, the governor in idaho, wrote him a letter, man-to-man, telling him don't do it. dear governor little, i urge your veto of this idaho ban on people leaving the state of idaho to get an abortion. governor inslee explained his objections to the bill and warned the idaho governor that this legislation would contribute further to what he described as already an exodus of health care professionals from idaho. then he said this. he said quote, regardless of
your decision on this bill, we welcome idaho's patients and health care providers with open arms in washington. we will care for your residents in a manner consistent with their health care needs as determined by trained medical professionals and not politicians. it will not stand. quote. we will protect our providers and harbor and comfort your residents who seek care denied to them in idaho. we'll comfort the residents that flee your state to get health care here that you criminalize. and he signed his name to it. idaho has since signed that legislation. but washington has agency, too, since then, washington governor jay inslee, democrat, has signed
legislation that blocks law enforcement officials and courts in washington state from aiding any other state's abortion related legal investigation. it blocks police and courts in washington from assisting other states' investigations going after trans people. he signed legislation to protect washington doctors from professional disciplinary action if they provide care in violation of another state's law. he signed legislation that said in washington the data from cell phone apps that track your period can't be shared. they can't use those apps as evidence in prosecution related to abortion. he's also bought a stockpile of abortion pills for washington. signed legislation to ensure that they stay legal in washington as republicans try to ban them in every state in the country. and you know, there's always a
tail of two cities in this country. i've always been interested in state politics and the way things shape up. you can see the states as laboratories of democracy but you see the states where they're trying out things each of the parties wants for the whole country. there's always been a tale you could tell about what republican controlled states are doing versus what they're doing in the blue states. i find it probably more interesting than most. i've always been intrigued by these stories. but as much as you can see the difference states, red and blue states, difference in priorities and outcomes and sometimes in seriousness of purpose in the lawmakers in those states. all the trends i followed for years, this is one of the few times i can remember that democratic states like jay inslee's washington state are passing legislation not just different than the republican state, not just passing
legislation that makes blue states distinct from republican states in terms of policy and likely outcomes. this is the first time i remember democrat controlled states feel the need to pass rafts of legislation just to protect themselves from red states and what they're doing over there. governor inslee also just signed gun policy reform. an assault weapons ban that bans the manufacture, importation, distribution, sale or offering for sale of assault weapons like ar-15s and ak-47s. if you want to buy a gun in washington, you have a safety training and a ten-day waiting period. he just signed all of that. he's getting stuff done in washington. he's also leaving office. washington governor jay inslee is the nation's longest
serving -- currently serving governor. he's been governor of washington since elected in 2012, a solid decade. he's in his third term. given how he galloped to a landslide win last race, he was considered a shoo-in to run for an unprecedented fourth term in washington. that's not what he wants. today he announced in his words it's time to pass the torch. joining us now is governor jay inslee of washington state. it's really nice to see you. thanks for being here on a big day. >> thanks for having me. >> why did you decide you don't want to run again? >> well, you know, it's the bird song or the good book, to everything there's a season. this is the moment for change. to some degree having a first term of a new governor instead of a fourth term with me was the right decision for the state. i've had an extremely effective run. our state has been so successful
the last ten years. we developed the best climate policies in the country, the best paid family leave, doing as well as possible to protect a woman's right to choice and taking action against gun violence. we've set the stage for the next great chapter of washington's history in spades, and i think this was the moment. i'll find another way to be active. it's not retirement, i'll be fighting the climate battle in some context. it was right moment. >> i want to ask you about the gun laws. the things i was reminded of looking over your biography, you were good at getting elected to congress. but in 1994, a big republican
year, you were voted out because of the assault weapon ban, people attributed your loss to the stance on guns. it's a good bookend, can you reflect on the passage of time and what it's taken in terms of political bravery on that issue? >> i did vote for it. number 217th vote, did have some measure getting it passed. it was effective, reduced mass murders in the ten years it was on the books. never regretted that vote. it did play a role in my removal from congress but never regretted it. figured no child's life was less important than somebody's office. i never regretted it. there is a certain beauty, if you can call it that, to now as a governor be able to enforce it
in our state. i feel if not personally vindicated, i'm glad we finally got it done. sorry it took so long. but we passed two other bills that may be just as important. we passed a bill to require safety training before you get a gun, and a ten-day waiting period, that's been shown to be very effective where implemented. and to hold manufacturers liable if they act inappropriately. i'm glad my state is moving on gun violence. the tragedies we've been seeing is unacceptable, inaction is unacceptable. we're going to continue to take action. >> you've been a leader in washington and in the country in climate policy. the things you can brag on in your time as governor, some of the most aggressive climate policies in the country if not the most. you also ran for president on a climate change platform and
doing the right thing nationally on climate change. i wonder if you have a message for your fellow democrats and the country about political bravery around climate issues. i'm struck now by treasury secretary allen said we're going to hit the debt ceiling by potentially june 1st, there has to be action to raise the ceiling to avoid catastrophic default on debts. right now the republican legislation to raise the ceiling also winds back all the climate policy that president biden has been able to enact in his first two years in office. just wanted your reflections on that. >> first off i'm happy we have a president and democratic majorities that are not going backwards on climate change. that's unacceptable for the future of our planet and
children and grandchildren. that's not going to happen. what i think the central tenet in climate right now, we have to bolster our confidence and our optimism to develop a national belief we can do this. we can develop a clean energy economy. that's the most central, important message. yes, we have to talk about the glaciers melting and forest fires and tornadoes and floods, but just as, maybe more important, we need to bolster americans' belief we can get this job done. we can. i was in everett, washington, we rolled out the largest commercial hydrogen fuel cell plane developed in world history. i was in moses lake with the first silicon anode battery under production. the technological change is allowing us to tame this beast. that message of confidence will
see us through this republican effort to go backwards that will not succeed, and we'll continue to move this nation forward. i'm confident about that. i can't turn over a rock in my state without finding people who have great jobs as a result of the clean energy revolution. let's march forward with confidence, not listen to the republicans naysaying and -- they're just fear based. they're afraid we can't do it. they're wrong. they don't have confidence in the american people. we're the party of confidence, we can do that. >> governor jay inslee, it's a big day. thanks for being here. >> thanks,rachel. keep spreading the gospel. >> much more ahead. stay with us.
what are folks 60 and older up to these days? getting inspired! volunteering! playing pickleba...! when i was diagnosed with h-i-v, i didn't know who i would be. but here i am... being me. keep being you... and ask your healthcare provider about the number one
prescribed h-i-v treatment, biktarvy. biktarvy is a complete, one-pill, once-a-day treatment used for h-i-v in many people whether you're 18 or 80. with one small pill, biktarvy fights h-i-v to help you get to undetectable—and stay there whether you're just starting or replacing your current treatment. research shows that taking h-i-v treatment as prescribed and getting to and staying undetectable prevents transmitting h-i-v through sex. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects include a buildup of lactic acid and liver problems. do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your healthcare provider. common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache. no matter where life takes you, biktarvy can go with you. talk to your healthcare provider today. when the davises booked their vrbo vacation home, they didn't know about this view. or the 200-year-old tree in the backyard.
or their neighbors down the hill. but one thing they did know is exactly how much they'd pay. because vrbo is different. you see the total price up front. of course, it's good to leave room for some surprises. boo! ♪ >> tech: when you have auto glass damage, trust safelite. we'll replace your windshield, and recalibrate your advanced safety system. so automatic emergency braking and lane departure warning work properly. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪

believe it or not, we're coming up on the 15th anniversary of the start of this program. it's very hard to believe. but there it is. when you've been on the air 15 years, some stories come up again and again in some iteration. stories you get used to covering or you get used to the type of stories. election stories, campaign
stories, some political scandals are a mad libs script. public official x is famous for making political hay out of thing, turns out secretly politician x is doing the opposite of thing. there's a mad libs quality to scandals. usually politician x is lying about the thing and there's something sketchy about it related to money. you get used to the way they unfold. types of stories recur. a familiar cadence. then some you think are one of a kind. you think, you hope you have closed the book on, never have to think of them again. won't need to drag that out of the archives, there will never be another thing like that. in this case, boy is this a story i hoped that was true about. back in 2009 when thisshowhad
barely been on the air a year -- but i still had the same haircut -- we reported repeatedly on a trip taken by a bunch of american anti-gay activists who went to uganda. well connected, american, anti-gay, conservative evangelical activists who traveled to uganda for an anti-gay conference that year. and while they were there, they spoke to a group including legislators from uganda, and they told the legislators in their national laws, in uganda, they should have zero tolerance for homosexuality. the visiting americans flew in to tell the parliamentarians that gay people were dangerous,
coming to molest ugandan children and convert them. and they were on a mission against their family values and had to be stopped. they also told the leaders and legislators as american experts on the subject they were able to confirm the scientific truth they were there to attest to, that gay people can become straight if they want to. there is a cure for homosexuality. the implication being if you're gay you just don't want to avail yourself of the available cure so you have only yourself to blame. that is the message these american right wing activists brought to uganda to advise them on legislation. portraying themselves as experts in the field. >> they say gays are born that way and it has been provide, it's been proven that they're born that way. that is a lie.
that is what is called a lie. it is not true. >> american activist telling ugandan legislators what he knows is the truth about homosexuality. that guy's claim to fame is a book called "the pink swastika" which claims it's not the nazis but the gays responsible for the holocaust. those american anti-gay conservative activists presented themselves as experts on sexual orientation, the science of sexual orientation. and their american anti-gay propaganda export operation worked in uganda, or it helped. lawmakers, some who attended these conferences, pushed extreme punishments for people gay in their country. it became known internationally
as the kill the gays bill. that's what it aimed to do, it prescribed death by hanging for the crime of homosexuality. there was such an intense international backlash to the law, the american activists who promoted this tried to distance themselves from what they had done. they were shocked by the drastic nature of the kill the gays bill, they said, that was introduced in the parliament. but the ugandans we talked to confirmed that those american activists had inspired the law with their bonkers anti-gay pseudoscience and claims to expertise. now the way that story ended, at least the way most american coverage of that story ended is that the wave of international condemnation for the kill the gays bill was so overwhelming even though the ugandan
government was in favor of it, they shelved it. that was 2009. but these americans who pushed that to happen, the american anti-gay conservative activists, for all of damage they managed to do in uganda, they were the fringiest of the fringe. homosexuals are on a mission to steal your children and we have to make it illegal. that was way out there in 2009 even for far right politicians supportive of those evangelical groups. now that same message that gay people are out to get you, gay people, trans people and drag queens are on a mission to steal your children and undermine society. we have to make it illegal. that's kind of the republican
platform. they could agree on nothing else in 2023 but that. what was fringe in 2009 is now mainstream republican politics in 2023. and when our domestic far right is even more unleashed like that at home, guess what the implications are for that around the world? kill the gays law is back. and it is more insane now. and yes, right wing americans are helping with it again. we have a very much lamented update on that story here, live, next. e, next nigerian east central from you. benin. my dad's side. 30% japanese. thank you, mom. there's just still so much to discover. now on sale for mother's day.
weeds... they have you surrounded. you're just gonna stand there? or are ya gonna take your lawn back. we're gonna take it back. we're gonna take it back. with scotts turf builder triple action! it gets three jobs done at once - kills weeds. prevents crabgrass. and keeps your lawn growing strong. glorious! -agggghhhhhh! -aaagghhhh.
no no no. get a bag of scotts triple action today, it's guaranteed. feed your lawn. feed it.
>> woman: why did we choose safelite? we were loading our suv when... crack! feed your lawn. safelite came right to us, and we could see exactly when they'd arrive with a replacement we could trust. that's service the way we want it. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ ♪ limu emu & doug ♪ hey, man. nice pace! clearly, you're a safe driver. you could save hundreds for safe driving with liberty mutual. they customize your car insurance so you only pay for what you need! [sfx: limu squawks] whoo! we gotta go again. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪
our customers don't do what they do for likes or followers. their path isn't for the casually curious. and that's what makes it matter the most when they find it. the exact thing that can change the world. some say it's what they were born to do... it's what they live to do... trinet serves small and medium sized businesses... so they can do more of what matters. benefits. payroll. compliance. trinet. people matter.
last year republicans in arizona lined up behind a bill that would have punished teachers and opened them up to lawsuits. the idea was this, if a student was for example scared to tell his or her family they were gay, transgender or thinking about those issues, and the student decided instead to talk with their teacher about it, this arizona law would create an affirmative legal obligation for the teacher, forcing the teacher to call the parent and tell. if the teacher didn't do it, arizona republicans said the teacher should lose his or her license and be sued as an individual. they also pushed to ban books
like maya angelou's book, "i know why the caged bird sings" or "1984" or "the great gatsby" and it also would have made it illegal to teach anything at all about homosexuality. you could not say it exists. what those two bills had in common, to create them, republicans in arizona consulted with the same far right interest group, it's a group based in arizona but only dabble in the stuff in the united states. where they do most work is overseas. this is a right wing anti-gay group in arizona that for years has backed anti-gay legislation in countries like nigeria where same-sex relationships are punishable by death depending on what part of the country you're
in. along the way, this arizona group has forged close ties with virulently anti-gay activists who were enthusiastic supporters of uganda's previous kill the gays bill. this was one of the key organizers of a conference in uganda that hosted elected officials from more than a dozen countries in africa. they gathered to promise they would push legislation against the sin of homosexuality. here's the head of family watch international meeting with her longtime friend, the first lady of uganda. the first lady said in the recent meeting they discussed concern about the imposition of harmful practices like homosexuality. american activists taking that
message abroad. now family watch international's efforts appear to be paying off. a few weeks ago, the parliament in uganda passed what amounts to a new kill the gays bill to impose the death penalty for certain offenses, life in prison for anybody who has gay sex, makes it illegal to advocate for the rights of lgbtqia people. would carry prison years as a penalty. the white house has come out hard against this legislation. >> before i turn it over to my colleague, i want to say one thing, we have grave concerns with the passage of the antihomosexuality act by the parliament of uganda yesterday and increasing violence targeting lgbtqia plus persons. it's one of the most extreme
antilgbtqia plus laws in the world. human rights are universal and no one should be attacked, imprisoned or killed because of who they are or whom they love. >> strong criticism from the biden administration for the proposed kill the gays law in uganda. right now it's been sent back for strengthening. apparently the president wanted a provision added regarding so-called conversion therapy to cure people from being gay. but it could be reintroduced as soon as tomorrow. our next guest joining live from uganda is one of the most respected lgbtqia rights activist in that part of the world. he said members of parliament have confirmed tomorrow may be the day. what that means in this country is that yes, the biden administration has spoken out about the bill, but if they're
going to turn up the heat, use their influence to stop this, the time is now. right now. as in tonight. joining us now from the capital city, the executive director of sexual minorities from uganda. i appreciate you being here. i know it's a dangerous time for you to speak out and also it's the middle of night where you are. i appreciate you being here, sir. >> thank you so much for having me and thank you so much for amplifying our voice. now and back then when the kill the gays bill was introduced. we appreciate that and need our voices to be amplified in uganda and other parts of africa where this legislation is being introduced. thank you for having me. >> of course. as you mentioned, we covered the initial iteration of the bill in
2009, went through a long process, eventually shelved. can you tell us the difference? is this a continuation, is it worse, similar legislation? >> this legislation is very, very draconian and extreme. this legislation in my words, i've said it many times, it is to erase the entire existence of lgbtqia persons in uganda, and radicalizes ugandans into hatred of the community. we're seeing that happen. this would lead to mob justice, to people getting disowned by their own families. because it compels any person to report any person known as a lgbtq person to the authorities. this is more extreme than the one in 2009. >> compelling other citizens to
report fellow ugandans they believe to be gay. tell me, we have seen some coverage in the united states, including i think important reporting in the "new york times" about ugandans fleeing to other countries to avoid the mob violence, vigilante violence you're describing. if this law passes, what does it mean for activists like yourself? >> if it is passed, many people will get arrested. many lgbtq persons leave the country. so many of the lgbtq community members are already trying to go to neighboring kenya, which is not safe as well but they feel they would be safer in kenya than be in prison in uganda, and we're seeing ugandans
radicalized and hating on lgbtq persons. we're seeing many cases of violence, social exclusion, people getting beaten. we're seeing that increase. if this bill is passed or signed by the president, we'll see many of the lgbtq members leave the country, and many get arrested. people like myself, outspoken, i could get arrested. my colleagues could end up in prison. >> i have to ask you if it made a difference for the obama administration, the u.s. government to speak out against this proposed legislation years ago. and in your opinion would it make a major difference if american politicians or the biden administration took a firmer, louder stance on this and put pressure on your country's government not to do it? would it make a difference if
america stood up? >> it would make a big difference if americans spoke directly to our authorities and told them how dangerous it is for the lgbtq here and how it's going to make them unsafe living in uganda and it's a gross violation of the human rights of lgbtq persons. it would make a big difference. >> taking a big risk to talk to us tonight. sir, good luck in your work, thank you. be safe. >> thank you so much. >> we'll be right back. stay with us. ay with us
introducing astepro allergy. now available without a prescription. astepro is the first and only 24-hour steroid-free spray. while flonase takes hours, astepro starts working in 30 minutes. so you can [ spray, spray ] astepro and go. overactive bladder, or oab, can change your world. like going hiking, just to hike to the bathroom. reaching for the bar,
just to reach for pads. waiting for the sunset, just to wait for the stall. discover gemtesa. a once-a-day pill proven to reduce all 3 key symptoms of oab: leakage episodes, urgency and frequency in adults. do not take if you have a known allergic reaction to gemtesa or its ingredients. tell your doctor right away if you are unable to empty your bladder or if you have a weak urine stream. tell your doctor if you're taking medicines that contain digoxin or if you have liver or kidney problems. side effects may include headache, common cold symptoms, diarrhea, nausea, urinary tract and upper respiratory tract infection. ask your doctor about gemtesa. and see how urovant could help you save. - double check that. ask your doctor about gemtesa. eh, pretty good! (whistles) yeek. not cryin', are ya? let's tighten that. (fabric ripping) ooh. - wait, wh- wh- what was that? - huh? what, that?
no, don't worry about that. here we go. - asking the right question can greatly impact your future. - are, are you qualified to do this? - what? - especially when it comes to your finances. - yeehaw! - do you have a question? - are you a certified financial planner™? - yes. i'm a cfp® professional. - cfp® professionals are committed to acting in your best interest. that's why it's gotta be a cfp®. find your cfp® professional at letsmakeaplan.org. hi, i'm todd. i'm a veteran of 23 years. i served three overseas tours. i love to give back to the community. i offer what i can when i can. i started noticing my memory was slipping. i saw a prevagen commercial and i did some research on it. i started taking prevagen about three years ago. i feel clearer in my thoughts, my memory has improved and generally just more on point. prevagen. at stores everywhere without a prescription. when it comes to reducing sugar in your family's diet,
the more choices, the better. that's why america's beverage companies are working together to deliver more great tasting options with less sugar or no sugar at all. in fact, today, nearly 60% of beverages sold contain zero sugar. different sizes? check. clear calorie labels? just check. with so many options, it's easier than ever to find the balance that's right for you.
more choices. less sugar. balanceus.org   so first it was the texas billionaire guy flying clarence thomas around on all expense paid vacations which justice thomas didn't disclose to the court. then propublica reported the billionaire bought the house. and didn't disclose it either. then neil gorsuch, nine days after he was appointed to the supreme court, the head of a major law firm with business in front of the supreme court
decided to buy his property and pay him a lot of money. then a story from insider about the wife of chief justice john roberts working a multimillion-dollar gig can for law firms who regularly appear in front of the supreme court. if you're about to have a case in front of the supreme court, here's a handy way to put a lot of money in the pocket of the chief justice via his wife. tomorrow senate democrats are set to hold their first hearing on ethics and conflicts of interest at the united states supreme court. yeah, maybe it's time. they requested that chief justice john roberts appear and testify about the ethics rules, he declined the invitation, then they sent a series of questions about how the court enforces ethics policies. he sent this question, has there ever been any censure,
reprimand, admonition -- has anybody gotten into trouble for breaking the rules he says you follow? he sent his answer, no. nobody's ever gotten in trouble as far as he knows. quote, i'm not aware of any penalties imposed on justices for failing to abide by the principles. so nobody has gotten in trouble for breaking the supreme court ethics rules. they're very strict rules totally working to avoid scandal and the appearances of conflicts of interest, absolutely. everything is working great. no conflicts at all. the hearing on the court is 10:00 a.m. eastern time tomorrow with or without the chief justice there. watch this space. with downy infusions, let the scent set the mood.
feel the difference with downy.

shingles. some describe it as an intense burning sensation or an unbearable itch. this painful, blistering rash can disrupt your life for weeks. it could make your workday feel impossible. the virus that causes shingles is likely already inside of you. if you're 50 years or older, ask your doctor or pharmacist about shingles. when i was his age, we had to be inside to watch live sports. but with xfinity, we get the fastest mobile service and can stream down the street or around the block!
hey, can you be less sister, more car? all right, let's get this over with. switch to xfinity mobile and get the best price for 2 lines of unlimited. just $30 a line per month. i should get paid more for this. you get paid when you win. from xfinity. home of the 10g network. >>