it that really worries me. thank you both, appreciate it. that is all in on this monday night, chris hayes will be back tomorrow night. you can watch the mehdi hassanshowsundays at a pm eastern right here on msnbc. it also streams weekly on peacock. but therachelmaddowshowstarts right now, good eveningrachel. . >> thanks for joining, us looking on the news right now it's turning it to be sort of . anne. . . who . . who self-supporting undersea vessel. a submersible as opposed to a submarine is a vessel that also goes under the water but it is not autonomous it has to use either another
ship or surface platform of some kind as a kind of home base of which it is linkedch the vehicle that has been lost, that they're looking for right now is the ship from which it launched lost contact with it yesterday about an hour and 45 minutes after it45 started a dive. the dive was supposed to be about 2 1/2 hours down, 3 hours on the bottom of the ocean, and another 2 hours back. so it was supposed to be about 8 hours beneath the waves, but about an hour and three quarters into thatre 8-hour mission they reportedly lost communication. on thisre submersible there are five peoplesu onboard. the reason they were going down -- the reason they were in that part of the north atlantic is because they were planning to gotl look at the shipwrecked rus of it titanic. again, it should have been about 2 1/2 hours diving down roughly 2 miles to see the shipwreck,
about 3 hours they were down looking at it, poking around, and then another 2 1/2 hours coming up those 2 miles back through the sea. but this submersible has been out of touch and missing since it first dove yesterday morning, sunday morning. so the canadian and u.s. coast guard are bothn out there and there with their craft looking for it. i think a new york national guard aircraft is also joining the search nowrc as well. this is a n vessel only about t size of a pickup truck. it's like 22 feet long. again, 5 feet onboard. if those 5 people are alive, onboard, they reportedly have enough oxygen onboard that vessel tobo last them about fiv days. but they'veou been out of communication since yesterday morning. we'll let you know more as we know more. there's also been developments in the criminal prosecution of
former president donald trump. today a judge has ruled trump will be subject to a protective order when the comes to the evidence going to be disclosed to him as part of this case. he's not allowed toshowany of the evidence to a the public or media. he's not o allow today look at alone. he can only look at it in the presence of his lawyers.ce it is not at all a surprise this order has been issued. trump's lawyers didn't even object when the prosecution proposed this kind ofob protecte order. all the legal observers say this is exactly what you'd expect when it comes to someone being persecuted -- excuse me, prosecuted. he says persecuted. when it comes to someone being persecuted around the elsepeniage espionage act. it's just never going to not be astonishing that this is a former president who's in the
middle of being prosecuted under the espionage act, and therefore he has to sign off with a protective order from the court covering the evidence he'll be handling in a criminal case. that'll be an astonishing thing to absorb and report on now in a daily noway. "the washington post" now has a gigantic like 8,000-word exclusive story about what basically took the justice department so long toca get to this point of bringing federal charges against trump, specifically what tookar them s long to even start a concerted investigation not into the espionage act charges about him mishandling classified information, the stuff he's already been charged for, but what "the post" really looks at today is what took the u.s. justice department so long in starting tont investigate trump role in trying to overthrow the u.s. government, trying to stay in power by force after he lost the u.s. election. the bottom line finding by "the
post" investigation is essentially that it has taken so long, taken long enough that now if there areno charges brought it'll be not only butting up against that other federal case against him, it'll be definitely leaking into the presidential primary calendar under which he's running for president to try to beng the republican nomie again. "the post" line in their investigation p is essentially this has all taken so long basically because the justice department underca merrick garld has been very cautious and very slow moving. also that the fbi under christopher wray has been something more than that. they've essentially been thrown sand in the gears, not just slowingar things down but also saying no ton participating in certain investigations, even when theyat later say yes to the same requests. well, now that the government overthrow part of the trump federal criminal investigation is under the ospasses of special
counsel jack smith, so it's being run in some ways sort of independent of the justice department, that part of the investigation intot trump whic could theoretically yield a second indictment of him, "the post" doesse portray that investigation as now moving faster under jack smith, potentially even moving toward a close, but it was a year plus of sort of delay and foot shuffling at the justice department while they really internally could not agree how to proceed in that part of the investigation. it's interesting, there are revelations inti "the washingto post" today about a part of that jack smith investigation we covered intensively on thisshow, which is the so-called fake electors plot, the apparent plot by the trump campaign and trump white house to organize a handfule of republicans in stas to declare trump had won those states even though he'd lost them. and the fraud problem with this
alleged plot is that these groups of republicans in all these different states apparently at trump's direction they actually formally reported themselves to the national archives and to congress as if they were the official electors from those states when they were not.we now, we covered that story of alleged criminal fraud, a scheme orchestrated from the trump white house and from the trump campaign andom carried out by republicans in multiple states, we covered that story really intensively here. we know there have been investigations related today thoseve alleged crimes in at let two states, georgia, and michigan, and, now federally under jack smith at the justice department. "the washington post" today gives usme some updates on how that part ofte the investigatio is unfolding, the prospect for criminal charges related to the fake electors scheme at long last. we'll have allng those details coming up in just a moment. like i said it's been an unusual
and interesting news day today.   but we start here tonight with a story out of the great state of florida. florida in the 1950s. florida governed very much as a deep south state, long series of segregationist governors at that point even in a state with the fastest growingst population in thest country and diverse population, particularly getting more and more diverse all the time in florida cities. that state in the 1950s was effectively run by hardline conservatives just from the rural parts of the state. very, very conservative state in terms of its governance in the '50s. in the '50s the hard core politicians in the conservative state government they decided they were going tove go after t naacp and they were going to make a bigshowof it. they were going to bring the
powerey of the state governmento bear of going after and exposing and running to ground the naacp because they had the naacp was a bunch of communists. the naacp was, of course, at the timep fighting for civil right fighting for desegregation among other things. florida conservatives and florida state government at the time, they decided that this was marxism, this was communism, and they were going to end that in the state of florida using the power of the state government. and so in the '50s, they convened hearings in which they planned basically to harangue and make a public example out o some of these naacp commies. and they called up naacp members as their witnesses for these live hearings. and what survives on tape from that history, which we have the benefit ofic today, is that tho
naacp witnesses were having none of it. they were not going to take this lying down. they were not going to be used for some political stunt. and when push came to shove and it was time to do those public hearings, they just ran rings around the politicians. they ran rings around this floridais inquisition that was supposed to shut them down. listen to this. >> i protest against this committee. i think it's a illegal. i thinkth it's immoral, and i think it's indecent. >> i was born and reared in dade county. i am an american citizen. iam believe in the heritage of america. i believe in the principles of the constitution of the united states. i would not permit this committee or any other committee to intimidate me nor to deny me my lawful constitutional rights. >> these poised, defiant witnesses they seemed to really
flummox the johns committee and johns himself. >> i feel this committee should go back down there and call those witnesses and forced to testify. if if they refuse we should put them in jail and let them stay there. >> they didn't cooperate with us at all. we should put them in jail. that sound from today's episode, episode number 2 of my new podcast "deja news." i promise i won't talk about thisi together. there's six episodes all together of this series. this second one posted today, which is where that sound is from. you heard my co-host isaac, there along with pansy flone and thedoor gibson from the naacp, and also the florida legislative leader charlie johns explaining about these witnesses who had humiliated him at his own
hearing. that was him at the end. a reason we did a podcast about the florida inquisitions in theu 1950s and 1960s and those inquisitions going so poorly for florida state government conservatives who thought they were going to be great, the reason we just did a podcast about this time in history in florida because it does give you a kind of deja news feeling when you realize that this today is the most powerful guy in florida, and he really is singing the sameal kind of tune. >> that means we're required to wage a war on woke, and that's exactly what we are going to do. woke, some people say i don't care about sawoke, i don't care about this. there's huge value in recognizing that this is a form of cultural markism. when woke ideology in the forms of things like esg take over our economy, when woke ideology takes over our education system. when woke ideology takes over the criminal justice.
so woke ideology. the woke in the schools. the woke in the corporations. the woke in the halls of the congress. surrender to the woke mob. woke ideology. >> the man has a theme. the man has a theme and he is sticking to it. that was republican presidential contender and florida governor ron desantis showing off his rutorque skills in pennsylvania. this really is what he thinks can propel him to the white house. i will tell you right now it did not work out that way for the last florida politicians who tried to make a bigshowout of attacking civil rights groups and attacking gay people and attacking schools and trying to make hot politics out of teachers lesson plans. this has been tried before in that same state not that long ago ande had a very unhappy political ending for the
politicians who tried it. yes, it worked for them for a little while, and they got very excited aboutth that and though they could ride it forever, but then it really crashed landed when people decided they were sick of it. as we head into this new, odd season n of presidential nominating politics with the republican party's presidential front-runner indicted and facing trial in two jurisdictions on more than 60 felonies combined and maybe more to come, consider also that the runner-up to the front-runner iner republican polling right now is really pitching his whole tent on this crusade against wokeness. while meanwhile today in florida is naacp, the same naacp that ranme rings around the last florida politicians who tried to run this playbook in the 1950s, today they launched a five-day bus tour, a five-day, 15-city bus tour in florida on what they're calling the "stay woke
tour." stay woke, florida. funny, they don't think of that as an epithet. a a rolling protest. they start off today rolling the stay woke bus into the state capitol of tallahassee and then went onto a gainesville. they're going to hit 15 cities in florida over the next five days. again, they're call sg the stay woke florida tour from the naacp. just as governor ron desantis traveling to all the early governing states perhaps assuming he doesn't have to become a good speaker if he keepsr waggling his finger at e audience and saying woke over and over again and that's all he'll need, and that will do thh trick for him. funny, not everybody hears that word e the same way you do. the reason the naacp stay woke florida bus tour kicked off today is because today is june 19th, aka juneteenth.
but confederate army lost the civilos war, surrendered in 186. it was not until june 19, 1865, when the union army came to galveston, texas, to issue junior order number 3, basically saying yeah we mean it, here too. it says, quote with a proccluimation from the zematives of theui united state all slaves are free. and juneteenth has been an african american community celebration in the united states for generations since. as of last year juneteenth is also a federal holiday in this country. todayol marks the second formal federal observation of juneteenth as a federal holidaye but of course it all started in texas. this past october in conroe, texas, just north of houston a
new elementary school was opened. it'sem called annette gordon re elementary school. it's eelovely. it was name for a little first grade girl in 1964 became the first black girl to19 integrate the integrated schools of texas. it was ten years after the brown v. board of education supreme court ruling, but it took all those ten years. it took ten years for the first black student to brave the threshold of a white school in conrad, texas. this was a town that had seen lynchings. this was a town that had seen a black man literally burned at the stake at the courthouse square in the 1920s. in the early 1940s a black man was accused of raping a white woman in conrad, texas.
he was literally murdered in the courtroom during his trial. during his trial a man stood up in the ducourtroom, shot the ma in the head in front of the judge, in front of the jury, in front of all the spectators. that man who fired the shot was then acquitted of the murder. when you commit murder in the courtroom inrd front of a judge and they are then going to acquit you of it, it was not a place of fainthearted to brave integration in 1964, but it was a little first grade girl who did it. and she got great grades. she was great in school. she went onto be a ph.d. historian. she wrote "the hemin gses of monticello." she's a pulitzer prizewinning historian. she is the namesake of annette
gordon reed elementary school in texas. she is a texan and the author most recently on the book "on juneteenth." joining us now is annette gordon reed. i'm really grateful you're able to join us tonight. thank you so much. >> thank you for inviting me. i'm glad to be here. >> let me ask you first, i feel like you've done so much in your scholarship and in your writing to explain and sort of paint a portrait of juneteenth in texas and in texas history and texas communities. i want to t ask you how you fee we're doing as a country celebrating juneteenth as a federal holiday now for the second year. >> well, actually, i've been quitect impressed by what i've seen. my husband gives me litzings of events that are going on around the country, and we seem to be doing a good job keeping the basic spirit of k the holiday, the celebration, actually good food and so forth, but also paying attention to the reason,
you know, the important reason that, you know, for why we celebrate this. so i've been very pleased with what happened so far. i hope we keep it up and it doesn't just become a day for mattress sales and so forth and this will be something really important and special. >> it strikes me as an important confluence of events in the united states that we are, again, just at the very beginning ofte celebrating juneteenth -- celebrating this very particular celebration, this very important moment in african american history and in american history really as a country for the first time while we are also having this big culture war movement against teaching civil rights history. and i wonder -- i don't think one is causative of the other, but what happens when these two things crash together? >> well, what i'm hoping will
heap is we'll overwhelm the forces of people who will cut back or hide history but we'll keep going forward on it. it is strange. in texas there have been moves to limit what can be taught in history, what you can say about history. so far juneteenth has sort of escaped that. but i think we can't rest on our laurels. we have to be bold and continue to celebrate the history and talk about what makes this important, the legacies of slavery and what happened before then and what happened afterward. so it's a really tricky time we're in. >> thee thing that strikes me, always strikes me but particularly strikes me in your writing about juneteenth is that one of theit important things about this as a holiday is that it's a holiday that marks celebration. it's obviously about a pivot point in american history and about the darkest and worst things about us as a country, but what this day marks is the celebration of african american
communities in getting news that things are going to change. it's g something to commemorate- it's not even just celebratory. it's about acknowledgment of change towards a better future, i feel like that has a kernel in it that i think americans want to learn, can potentially cross partisan divides cancan turn us into something that feels different than most s of the otr holidays that we've got. >> oh, yes. it's a celebration but it's also a commemoration. the celebration recognizes the joy that people felt knowing that they would no longer -- it would no longer be possible to legally separate families the way -- the main trauma of slavery was that never seeing your mother and father and your children again because they are treated as chattel and soul, whipping all those things but they knew all those things. you're happy one thing has ended, but a new struggle
begins, and i think that is a thing as you're suggesting makes the holiday fertile ground for conversation and perhaps conversation evenco across, wel definitely across racial lines but maybe across party lines even to the extent we could do that these days. >> and it's also true we should know this is settled as a matter as something we all agree as a country this is something we will celebrate and commemorate. there was a story i saw in the mississippiin free press today noting in mississippi state re offices were open today even though juneteenth is a federal holiday to just a couple months ago when they celebrated the confederate memorial day they closed. >> i'm not surprised. it's not surprising. it's not surprising, but it's disheartening obviously. but you have to keep going in the face of all of this.
that's what we've done since 1865 is keep going in the case of a lot of recalcitrance, unnecessary and unfortunate recaltrance. >> the author most recently of "on juneteenth," pulitzer prizewinningul historian. and as i said the namesake of annette gordon reed elementary school in texas. >> thank you for inviting me. >> i appreciate it. we've got much more ahead tonight. do stay with us. do stay with us. d tonight. do stay with us.




we have seen as you pointed out multiple times now various different false slate of electors from several different states in what seems to be a coordinated effort between republican parties and various different states. we think this is a matter best investigated and potentially prosecuted by the feds. and as such just today we referred this matter to the western district of the u.s. attorneys office for them to evaluate it. >> that was michigan attorney general dana nestle speaking on thisshowback in january 2022 wondering why republicans in multiple states had sent in fake electoral votes from fake presidential electors as though donald trump had won their states when he had not. they clearly hoped that when vice president pence went to certify the results of the
election on january 6th, he would use their fake votes from the fake electors from trump instead of the real ones from biden. the michigan attorney general told us that night in january 2022, so a year after the january 6th attack on the capitol, she told us that this matter of the fake electors she believed was best investigated and potentially prosecuted at the federal level. she told us that night she had referred this matter to the u.s. justice department. january 13, 2022. that was a long time ago now. what ever happened to that? we covered this story intensively at the time. we have the documents, we have the fake slates of electors because the republicans involved in this scheme actually sent them into the national archives which is where real electoral votes are supposed to be sent.
you can see here the real elector documents. you can see them because every state does them differently. they all have their own quirks, their own fancy or not fancy payment, decorations and seals. this is what the real one looks like. look at the forged republican documents. they do not look so fancy. in fact, they match. the same formatting, same font, same spacing and almost the exact same wording on every single one. because of the similarities, the obvious similarities between all these forged documents from all these different states, it just really didn't seem like this republicans in all these different states independently have the same idea they were all going to try to commit this kind of fraud in all the same font. if that was happening independently in all these states, they would have all sent in documents that sort of looked
different. instead they all matched from different states. it really did appear to be some sort of coordinated effort. somebody telling all these republicans in all the different states's what you'll do, put your name here. the fake elector scheme, apparently a centrally organized scheme operating through multiple states. it is now part of at least three criminal investigations that we know of. one brought by a prosecutor in georgia. another on the federal level out of the u.s. department of justice under jack smith, and also in michigan. the michigan attorney general announced earlier this area that she was taking back this case and reopening it in michigan since the doj hadn't yet reacted on her referral a area earlier. what we've now learned today is confirmation that at least the federal investigation took a really, really long time to get going on this matter. and in the "washington post"
today, we learned some of the reasons why. the "washington post" has a kind of blockbuster report today. like 8,000 words describing in detail what has been going on inside doj since january 6th as fears of seeming partisan or overly aggressive essentially stalled big portions of the justice department investigation into trump for more than a year. the post says today that the justice department was alerted to the fake elector's scheme right after it happened in early 2021. quote, officials at the national archives had discovered similarities in fraudulent slates of electors for trump, that his republican allies had smitted to congress and the archives. the national archives inspector general's office asked doj's election crimes branch to consider investigating these seemingly coordinated efforts in swing states. according to two people familiar with the decision, the justice department declined that investigation, suggested to them
by the office at nara, they declined to investigating citing it's prosecutor's discretion. doj had instead decided they were going to start with the small fry. they were going to work their way up to bigger fish. they were going to arrest and prosecute individual rioters from january 6th and not worry so much about the people who had orchestrated the riot and everything else as a way to overthrow the u.s. government. so in early 2021, doj declined to investigate the electors and instead close to go after the people who physically attacked the capitol. the national press has started to pick up the story. dana nessel announced on our air that she wants the justice department to investigate this. the january 6th investigation in congress starts very publicly lack into the fake elector plot themselves. now thanks to this new reporting
today in the "washington post," we know that those things combined finally got the justice department interested in the fake electors again. quote, one person directly familiar with the department's new interest in the case said it felt as though the department was reacting to the house committee's work as well as heightened media coverage and commentary. only after they were embarrassed did they start looking, the person said. the process did not go quickly. lawyers with the fbi and justice department launched into what became many weeks of debate over the justification the for the investigation and how it should be worded. one time consuming issue became whether to name trump as a subject. finally, as public pressure mounted, quote, in april 2022, more than 15 months after the attack, fbi director christopher wray signed off on the authorization, opening a criminal investigation into the fake electors plot. it has been a year and a half
since we began talking about the fake elector scheme on thisshow. almost two and a half years since the justice department was first advised to start looking into it. still no federal charges, but now we at least have an idea why it has been taking so long to reach this point. thanks to this great reporting go from the "washington post" today, we posted a link atmaddowblog tonight. i commend it to you. it is worth reading for yourself. we'll be right back. we'll be ri.

frustrated by skin tags? dr. scholl's has the breakthrough you've been waiting for. the first fda-cleared at-home skin tag remover
clinically proven to remove skin tags safely in as little as one treatment. ♪ ♪ ♪♪ voltaren. the joy of movement. ♪♪

so the trial began today with a court spokesman making an announcement. he said the court has decided to make this trial closed to the public. the press is requested to leave the room. it was announced once everybody was there to see it happening, journalists were forced out of the room and were given instead access to fid yo proceedings. there was instead no sound on that video feed. the video was intelligible and eventually in the middle of the proceedings it cut out entirely, and with that media access was completely cut off to this trial. that was how the latest trial for russia's main opposition leader alexei navalny began today. navalny is already serving a long-term prison sentence in russia following this latest trial they're putting him through. he could face another 30 years behind bars. in a statement posted to social media by his allies, his colleagues today, mr. navalny said the decision to close the
trial to the public was a, quote, sign of fear by putin. navalny told his supporters, quote, he's scared of what i have to say. in all honesty that's probably a good assessment, putin is scared of it. in that same message navalny also announced the start of what is basically a political campaign to try to turn the russian public against russia's war in ukraine. he said he's enlisting the help of volunteers in every walk of life. the plan is to use call centers outside of russia as well as social media and messaging apps to reach out to every day russians to convince them to change their views on the war in ukraine. now, as ambitious as that sounds for anyone in russia, it probably should not surprise us that navalny would embark on something this ambitious even while he is in prison and they're trying to put him away for 30 more years. he's such a resourceful and fearless and relentless opposition leader that the
kremlin has tried everything they could think of to get rid of him. among other things they've already tried unsuccessfully to kill him in a nerve agent attack. that strategy is one of the things that marks russia as an international rogue state. their assassinations and attempted assassinations of people particularly their own people around the world. and we've obviously seen them do lots of this in russia, one of the most dangerous places to be as a member of the russian elite is anywhere near a high floor window during the reign of vladimir putin. we've also seen them kill people in germany and the u.k. now we've learned the sort of shocking revelation they try today do it in this country as well. "the new york times" today confirmed remarkable reporting that's set to appear in a soon to be published book. it recounts a failed plot by the kremlin to assassinate a former russian intelligence official who became a cia informant.
the remarkable thing in terms of modern russian history is not they decided they wanted to go and kill the guy, they decided apparently they wanted to kill the guy on u.s. soil in the united states. that russian intelligence officer had disclosed information to the u.s. government that resulted in the fbi uncovering a bunch of russian spies living here in the u.s. under deep cover. not surprisingly the russian government was not too pleased about that. what we learned today is apparently in 2020 an attempt was made to take him out on american soil in miami. now, that plot did not succeed, but still trying it here means something. and in a way maybe this shouldn't be all that surprising. given russia's previous patterns we know what they're willing to do, but it does open really a whole new can of worms in terms of our relationship with them
and what the implications of this might be. this is new rubicon they've crossed in the united states. lots of experience dealing with the russian government in all sorts of ways he can't talk about. i really appreciate you being on theshowwith us tonight. thank you. >> good to be here. >> so as i mentioned we know about russian efforts to track down and kill people or try to kill them not just in russia but in places like germany and in places like the u.k. as a former cia chief who has real expertise in this field, does it strike you as significant? is this something new and important they've apparently tried to do in the united states? >>rachel, i think so. for a long time we saw europe as kind of russia's intelligence playground. and as you very artfully state there were successful and unsuccessful operations in the u.k. and in germany.
russia never was deterred from doing this. you know, there always would be tit for tat expulsions declaring russian intelligence officers persona nongrata from countries but they were never deterred. it looks as though they tried to recruit a support asset to in essence obtain pattern of life ana alleged defector who's living in miami. what does that mean? it means trying to figure out for a future s assassination team where this individual lived, how he parked his car for something a lot of us thought was out of bounds for russian activity in the u.s.rachel, i'll say something and i think a lot of people don't understand this. with russian defectors, with any defectors the cia is allowed to parole in essence into our country up to 100 defectors a year. it's a large number, and that's really not important. but that also means we give them permanent residence and that's a path to citizenship.
so in essence the russians were not only trying to kill a defector, a former officer of their intelligence service, this was also a u.s. citizen, and that should alarm a lot of people. >> is it also -- i mean given that, he's a defector the cia essentially take said responsibility for him, brings him into the u.s., brings him in and installs him here as a permanent resident, potentially as a u.s. citizen in a way supposed to be safe from reprisal from the country he defected. is it surprising to you the kremlin was apparently able to dispatch somebody to get this close to him as apparently part of an assassination plot? should he have been more protected? >> the answer to that is yes, and i'm sure the intelligence community tightened up in its procedures. of course the operation was not successful. one of the things we've seen over the years with defectors and they don't always follow the rules. they miss home, they contact relatives. sometimes they do things that
open them up to eventually kind of their home country finding out where they are. but really generally in the united states they were still considered untouchable, and that's what i think is so troubling here. look, vladimir putin has a pathological hatred of defectors. he's a former intelligence officer. this goes to kind of his dna. and he clearly has made the decision to kind of cross that rubicon and go after individuals in the united states, and we have to up our game and ensure individuals, these are agents of ours. we have a sacrosanct ability to protect them. >> invaluable to have your expertise on this story tonight. thanks for being here. >> thanks.   we'll be right back. stay with us. thanks.   we'll be right back. stay with us have any idea? that they can sell their life insurance policy for cash? so they're basically sitting on a goldmine? i don't think they
have a clue. that's crazy! well, not everyone knows coventry's helped thousands of people sell their policies for cash. even term policies. i can't believe they're just sitting up there! sitting on all this cash. if you own a life insurance policy of $100,000 or more, you can sell all or part of it to coventry. even a term policy. for cash, or a combination of cash and coverage, with no future premiums. someone needs to tell them, that they're sitting on a goldmine, and you have no idea! hey, guys! you're sitting on a goldmine! come on, guys! do you hear that? i don't hear anything anymore. find out if you're sitting on a goldmine. call coventry direct today at the number on your screen, or visit coventrydirect.com. there is a better way to manage diabetes. the dexcom g7 continuous glucose monitoring system eliminates painful finger sticks, helps lower a1c, and it's covered by medicare. before using the dexcom g7, i was really frustrated.
all of that finger pricking and all that pain, my a1c was still stuck. before dexcom g7, i couldn't enjoy a single meal. i was always trying to outguess my glucose, and it was awful. before dexcom g7, my diabetes was out of control because i was tired, not having the energy to do the things that i wanted to do. (female announcer) dexcom g7 is a small, easy-to-use wearable that sends your glucose numbers to your phone or dexcom receiver without painful finger sticks. the arrow shows the direction your glucose is heading-- up, down, or steady-- and because dexcom g7 is the most accurate cgm, you can make better decisions about food, medication, and activity in the moment. it can even alert you before you go too low or when you're high. oh, the fun is absolutely back. after dexcom g7, i can on the spot figure out what i'm gonna eat and how it's going to affect my glucose! when a friend calls and says, "hey, let's go to breakfast," i can get excited again. (earl) after using the dexcom g7, my diabetes, it doesn't slow me down at all.
i lead line dancing three times a week, i exercise, and i'm just living a great life now. it's so easy to use. it has given me confidence and control, everything i need is right there on my phone. (earl) the dexcom g7 is so small, so easy to use, and it's very discreet. (dr. aaron king) if you have diabetes, getting on dexcom is the single most important thing you can do. (david) within months, my a1c went down, that's 6.9. (donna) at my last checkup, my a1c was 5.9. (female announcer) dexcom is the number one recommended cgm brand and offers 24/7 tech support, so call now to get started. you'll talk to a real person. don't wait, this one short call could change your life. (bright music) (woman) oh. oh! hi there. you're jonathan, right? the 995 plan! yes, from colonial penn. your 995 plan fits my budget just right. excuse me? aren't you jonathan from tv, that 995 plan?
yes, from colonial penn. i love your lifetime rate lock. that's what sold me. she thinks you're jonathan, with the 995 plan. -are you? -yes, from colonial penn. we were concerned we couldn't get coverage, but it was easy with the 995 plan. -thank you. -you're welcome. i'm jonathan for colonial penn life insurance company. this guaranteed acceptance whole life insurance plan is our #1 most popular plan. it's loaded with guarantees. if you're age 50 to 85, $9.95 a month buys whole life insurance with guaranteed acceptance. you cannot be turned down for any health reason. there are no health questions and no medical exam. and here's another guarantee you can count on: guaranteed lifetime coverage. your insurance can never be cancelled. just pay your premiums. guaranteed lifetime rate lock. your rate can never increase. pardon me, i'm curious. how can i learn more about this popular 995 plan?
it's easy. just call the toll-free number for free information. (soft music) ♪   this weekend, yesterday at a cafe in concord, new hampshire, as a drag queen with the glorious name of juicy garland, held a family friendly story time event, about a dozen mask members of a new england based neo-nazi group started repeatedly doing the nazi salute and banging on the windows and screaming at everybody inside. juicy garland herself met the moment with her trademark twinkle saying in response, quote, we've got verified nazis today. golly, i didn't order those. her bra voudo notwithstanding,
concord, new hampshire, police were called to the scene. no arrests were made, but the new hampshire attorney general's office says it's working with partners to investigate. last week it was these guys outside disney world in florida. you can see about a dozen little charmers waving nazi flags and other white supremacist flags along with one that appears to be pro moting the presidential candidacy of republican governor ron desantis. and the swastika waving white supremacists that were demonstrating here they appear to be a new group. they may have been their first in-person demonstration. oh, goody. just a few days ago the fbi announced the arrest of a young man in michigan for allegedly planning a mass shooting at an east lancing synagogue. they seized multiple weapons from him. they described multiple messages that he planned to attack the synagogue on the anniversary of another white supremacist mass
shooting. all these stories are distressing in their own right and also a sign of the times. what appears to be an unrelated case has also emerged in kansas over the last few days. and while this case seems to be perhaps of a different character, it is also really worrying and worth watching. here's a photo of people in hazmat suits at the home of a republican state legislator in kansas. the hazardous material they're working on the envelope or the suspected hazardous material they're working on was sent to that legislator's home mailing address. about a hundred such letters were received by lawmakers and other government officials in kansas starting on friday. several of the letters were sent from addresses associated with churches. one of them reportedly used the name of a transgender activist who was murdered in 2021. the kansas bureau of investigation and the fbi are all investigating. they say the good news right now is that the white powder that was in these letters has tested
negative for any commonly used toxins. again apparently a hundred texans targeted with this and testing will continue, but obviously a worrying situation in kansas. watch this space. we'll be right back. in kansas. watch this space we'll be right back.


and this is ready to go online. any questions? -yeah, i got one. how about the best network imaginable? let's invent that. that's what we do here. quick survey. who wants the internet to work, pretty much everywhere. and it needs to smooth, like super, super, super, super smooth. hey, should you be drinking that? -it's decaf. because we're busy women. we don't have time for lag or buffering. who doesn't want internet that helps a.i. do your homework even faster. come again. -sorry, what was that? introducing the next generation 10g network only from xfinity. the future starts now.
our beloved colleague joy reid did not do hershowtonight on msnbc for the best possible reason. it's because she was en route traveling to texas on assignment. joy is in texas tonight and going to be there interest a round table with vice president harris. it happens tomorrow night at 7:00 p.m. right here on msnbc, one year post-roe, a reid out special with vice president harris. that's going to do it for me for now. >> "way too early" with jonathan lemire is up next.   when you say to the female independent suburban voter to win her