from other countries into th united states, even into state where abortion is illegal. >> we will see how this play out wednesday morning. katie benner, thank you so much, greatly appreciate you insights and your reporting on this that is all in on this monda night. you can watch myshowayman, saturdays at eight eastern sundays at nine eastern righ here on msnbc. therachelmaddowshowstart right now. good evening,rachel>> absolutely. very excited to hear about what you have to say about this distressing situation.
>> thank you for joining us. it is good to have you here.   when we get a new president in this country or when we get a president re-elected for a new term, that president is inoculated. he or someday she is sworn in to start a new presidential term in january. that is why it is always so cold. january 20 is when it happens. that has only been true since the 1930s. up until the 1930s, presidents did not get inaugurated in january. they waited another two months and didn't get inaugurated until march. last time a president got inaugurated on the old day in march was march 4, 1933. that was one president franklin delano roosevelt cuts one in for the first time. that was also the last time we as a country would have to wait
that whole four months after the election before we left the new president take over. after we had that first inauguration in march, 1933, we moved the date earlier and back to january. we actually had to amend the united states constitution in order to make the change. they call that amendment to the constitution -- they called it the lame duck amendment, because by moving the inoculation from march january, we were shortening the period and eliminating a long period after which the old president had been voted out, but before the new one started on the job -- the idea was obvious. it was to try to minimize the risk of crisis, confusion in terms of who was running the country. that was in case something happened the period between the
election and start of the new president's term. the last time, we had one of those long four month before the inauguration of a new president was in 1933. that year, by the time we got around to inaugurated, franklin d. roosevelt, it was really obvious that you're in 1933, then it was passed time to make that change. it was really obvious in 1933 that it was going to be a good idea to not wait until march anymore. instead, that any president take over sooner. the reason that was obvious in 1933 is because when he finally got inaugurated that year in march, we were literally in the middle of a nationwide run on the banks. that is when he got inaugurated. this was in the middle of the
great depression. during the term of the previous president, republican herbert hoover, disastrous presidency in economic terms. doing his time in office, there was a series of thinking panic. people made runs on banks. in 1932, there was a really big surge in bank failures in the west and midwest. there started to be a national panic. in 1932 when the national panic was taking hold in individual states, they started to and bank holidays. nevada was the first who did it, but other states like michigan followed suit and individual states started to holidays. they started declaring that they would be closed on specific days and basically stop people from rushing in and pulling all of the deposits and collapsing. doing that state-by-state and
random state by random stance state, it wasn't enough. the problem was spreading. fall of 1932, that is when roosevelt was elected in the presidential election to replace hoover in a landslide. he won 42 states that year. even as roosevelt one and everyone knew there was going to be a new sheriff in charge and somebody new in charge in washing and who was going to have radically different economic policies, still the banking system was having complications. roosevelt won that election, but wasn't actually able to get sworn in until march. it was until march 4. he did get sworn in and immediately took action. desperate times call for
desperate measures. fdr was inaugurated on march 4 and two days later, he declared for the first time a nationwide bank holiday to freeze the thinking system in place and finally put a national system and response in place to shore up the thinking coast-to-coast and to get americans everywhere assuring that they would not lose their money. after that, we would never again as a country wait that long for any president to take over after he had been elect in november. when he was in action in march and finally stopped to the national banking practice , he also at the same time invented a whole new thing to indicate with the american people and explain what he and his new administration were doing and how it was going to work to stop the national run on the banks.
fdr was sworn in march were there and instituted that bank holiday on march 6. on march 12, he gave his first fireside chat. it was about the bank crisis. >> i want to talk for a few minutes with the people of the united states about banking . comparatively few who understand the mechanics of banking, but more particularly with the overwhelming majority of you who use banks the making of deposits and withdrawn checks, i want to tell you what has been done in the last few days and why it was done and what the next steps are going to be. first, let me state the simple facts that when you deposit money in a bank, it does not put the money into a safe deposit. it invests more money in many different forms of credit, bonds, commercial, mortgages
and in many other kinds of loans . in other words, they put your money to work to keep the wheels of industry and agriculture turning around. a comparatively small part of money you put into the bank is kept in currency, an amount with in normal times is sufficient to cover the cash needs of the average citizen. >> he was a good explainer. that was a good explanation to the american people of what was going on. he went on to explain that although most banks were well- run, not all banks were well run. he some were run by incompetent or dishonest bankers and he said that eople losing confidence in the banks had caused people to understandably rush to get the money out and it created the present crisis, which has led him and his brand- new government to step in and try to stabilize. >> let me make it clear to you
that they will take care of all needs when they find that they can get their money. they can get it when they want it where all legitimate. the phantom of fear will soon be laid. people will be glad to have the money where it will be seeking taken care of and use it conveniently at any time. i can assure you, my friends, that it is safe to keep your money in a reopened bank then it is to keep under the mattress. >> i can assure you it is safer to keep it in a reopened bank then under the mattress. that was his first ever fireside chat. it was 90 years ago exactly. 90 years ago yesterday. in case you are under the mistaken impression that anything ever changes ever, here was president biden at 9:00 this morning. >> today, thanks to the quick
action of my administration over the past few days, america can have confidence that the banking system is safe. your deposits will be there when you need them because of the actions that is already taken. every american should be confident that their deposits will be there if and when they need them. >> it is safer to keep your money in a reopened bank then under the mattress. the only thing we have to fear is fear itself. 90 years apart. same message. 90 years apart. another bank run. the reason president biden was able to say, you don't have to put your money under the mattress, it say that we are making sure of it, everybody who deposited money will be able to get their money out. the reason he was able to promise that today is also because of fdr . after he was sworn in and two days later took control of the crisis, then
he gave his first fireside chat, which he explained the thinking crisis to the american people and told them what he was doing to get a hold of it . just a few weeks after that, fdr signed legislation that created the fdic. it does exactly what it says. if you make deposits of your own money and do, any federal bank insured by the fdic can guarantee you that the government will provide insurance for your deposit. no matter what stupidity your bank gets up to and no matter what happens to your stupid bank, the money deposit is insured and you will be able to get it back. fdr created fdic in 1933 and right after he was inaugurated. today, we are still benefiting. today, we are having another one of those thank you, fdr, kind of days. wednesday last week, a bank
called silver gate was first to and this is in california that was tied up in the cryptocurrency. they went on wednesday. senator elizabeth warren who ended up being a senator in a presidential candidate and became a national public figure at all because of her hard nose plain talking explanations and criticism about financial worl , elizabeth warren was all over it when silver gate bank collapsed wednesday last week. she said, as the bank of choice for crypto, its failure is disappointing, but predictable. i warned of its risky if not illegal activity and i identified due diligence failures and customers should step up. that was wednesday. late wednesday night, another california bank, silicon valley bank announced they lost nearly $2 billion, which started
a run on the bank by their depositors. venture capital perms and in particular, their own funds out of silicon valley bank until the companies they were invested in that they should put their money out of the bank, so by close of business on thursday, people who had their money deposited in silicon valley bank tried to pull more than $40 billion out. that was close of business thursday. by friday, that bank decided it would pay out a bunch of bonuses to their staff and executives. that was just hours before the federal government, the fdic came to take them over. interestingly, the government apparently over the weekend tried to find someone and some other company to buy silicon valley bank . in the end, didn't have time to make the sale properly given the risk
that it was going to spread and more banks were going to fail, so they gave up over the weekend after trying to do that. by sunday, another bank was down. signature bank, which is another one tied up in the cryptocurrency. what does this mean? first of all, people who put their money into those banks are going to get it back. thank you, fdr . the fdic ensures every bank account up to $1 billion. bigger than a quarter million dollars, those will be covered, as well. people who deposited will be able to get back the money they deposit. over and above the quarter million dollars that is covered by fdic, the additional amount is covered by the federal government and a find that the banks pay into, which is why president biden was able to say that the taxpayers will not be on the hook for covering these failures.
we are talking but the biggest bank failures since the financial catastrophe that hit at the end of the george w. bush . the biggest bank failure financially ever in the u.s. was washington mutual, which failed during the 2008 crisis. it was the second biggest failure ever in the u.s., which is silicon valley bank. that is the second biggest bank failure. here is the question. is this it? is what we are seeing here three banks falling apart and a sign that something was wrong at these specific banks? they specifically did something wrong? is there a wider problem that should make more of us worry? how is this different than what happened in the giant financial catastrophe of 2008 and 2009?
some of that we know. for one thing, when we have the huge bank bailouts, which have caused not only economic levels, but political for more than a decade since bread part of the anger and political realignment that happens in response to the anger about those bailouts is because not only did bank executives not get in trouble, but those bailouts included more than just the people who put deposits at these banks and more than people who had money deposited at these banks and benefited their when the banks got rescued. when there was the big bank bailout in 2008 and 2009, people who got bailed out the include just deposits of the banks, but they included people who held stock. shareholders who invested in the banks and financial institutions got filled out in 2008 and 2009, which never really made any sense.
president biden said, that's not going to happen. he said that people who deposited money will be protected, but people who invested and held stock in banks -- when you invest, you take a risk. those people to risk by investing and investors will lose investment money. shareholders will not be rescued that seems sensible. why did shareholders and investors get built out the first time anyway? i don't know. why didn't we learn this lesson from the last time this happened in 2008 and 2009? there is a real story. it is a story with some familiar political actors. when we had the financial catastrophe in 2008 and 2009, they did pass a big package of new rules for the financial industry to stop this from
happening again. this happened and you may remember president obama signing these rolls into law in 2010 these were rules signed the law in 2010 that made banks keep x amount of cash on hand. it's so they can meet customers demands. even if a whole bunch of them did it at once. the new role is limited and riskiness of what banks could invest their customers money and just as fdr explained. when you deposit, they don't just lock it up , but they do stuff with it. there were new roles in terms of the riskiness of what banks could do with your money and dodd frank required financial institutions to pass stress tests. they would have toshowthat they could survive and not collapse if something economically bad. those new rules were very hard-fought
after the 2008 2009 financial catastrophe. they were passed by the democratic-led congress signed by president obama in 2010. what happened? eight years later in 2018 after relentless lobbying by the banks and financial industry, once republicans are in control of congress and president donald trump was in the white house, guess what happened? they decided it was past time to roll back those new safeguards. >> the legislation i'm signing today rolls back the crippling dodd frank regulation. >> it was past and signed by then president donald trump in 2018 and was passed by all of the republicans and 17 democrats and moderate and conservative democratic senators who joined with the republicans to pass it. in the
house, 33 democrats who joined with the republicans to pass it, including future democratic -- no longer democratic senator. that would appeal of the dodd frank seatbelt and safety regulations in 2018 made it so those roles that were put into effect to stop there from being another crisis, they would apply to banks anymore. elizabeth warren at the time called bs on the whole thing and said it right here on msnbc. it turns out that elizabeth warren was exactly right when she sounded the alarm. >> senator elizabeth warren took the port city to express outrage that republicans are soon to expect to pass with the help of some democrats. it will rollback many of the wall street is passed a decade ago on the financial crisis and elizabeth warren joins me now.
how does this get 67 votes? you haven't voted on it so har , but --. >> i'm sorry, but let me stop it right there. how does this get any votes? we are now -- next week, we will be the 10th year anniversary of when the brothers crashed and signaled to the entire world that the collapse of 2008 had started. how it could be that after we got some dodd frank in place and 10 years nearly of trying to rebuild and after the banks are more profitable than that they have ever been in history, how could it be that this congress is, let's make it easier for big banks to treat american families and make it easier for them to load up on risks. let's take 25 of the 40 largest banks in america and banks that
sucked down $50 billion in bailout money and nobody went to jail. let's take them off the watch list and treat them like tiny little community banks somewhere where they can't hurt the economy. nobody can explain why they are saying that banks up to a quarter of $1 trillion should be regulated as if they are community banks. >> that was elizabeth warren in 2018. that is exactly what passed in 2018. that is what donald trump signed in 2018. when she predicted what that would do and risks that would create, she was right. this bank is one of the banks whose ceo lobbied that a bank like his shouldn't be subject did to the new regulations that his bank was no risk to anyone. because of that change signed
by trump in 2018, silicon valley bank did not have to be suggested subjected to the extra stress test and it didn't have to be subjected to the dodd frank regulations on what it can do it customers money. it didn't have the extra liquidity requirements to make sure it had enough cash on hand if their customers came knocking at the door, which they did. they did in palo alto, santa clara and across the country. they did it all over the country in every town where they had a branch. the type of stress that this was subjected to is the stress they were supposed to be tested against. had they not lobbied hard for themselves to be exempted from the new regulations that were otherwise put in place after the last crash to stop this from happening. she was right. when she said that we are rolling back regulations and what do.
it has come to pass. she says this in the new york times. she says, no one should be mistaken about what unfolded over the past few days. these recent bank failures are the direct result of leaders in washington and weakening the financials. in the aftermath of the financial crisis, congress passed the dodd frank act to protect consumers and ensure that things could never to on the economy and destroy millions of lives. wall street chief executives hated this law. they spent millions trying to defeat it and when they left, they spent millions were trying to weaken it. greg becker, chief executive of silicon valley bank was one of the many high-power executives who lobbied congress. in 2018, the big banks one and support for both parties, president donald trump signed a lots rollback critical parts. banks like silicon valley bank, which becomes the 16th largest bank in the country, they shut it down on friday and they got released from requirements and basing their claim on an
assertion that banks weren't actually big. they didn't need strong oversight. she says, i fought against these changes. i wish i had been wrong, but on friday, silicon valley bank executives were busy paying out congratulatory bonuses hours before the fdic rushed in to take over their failing institution and leaving countless businesses and nonprofits alarmed that they wouldn't be able to pay bills and employees. had congress and federal reserve not rolled back the strict oversight, svb would have been subjected to stronger requirements . they would have been required to conduct regular stress tests or expose vulnerabilities and shore up their businesses, but because the requirements were repealed when an old-fashioned bank run hit them, they couldn't withstand the pressure. these threats never should have been allowed to materialize. joining us is senator elizabeth warren democratic of massachusetts. i appreciate you
making time to be here tonight. thank you. >> thank you. >> you understand these things well. i really don't and don't have a head for the stuff. i met a person who is financially minded at all, but let me first ask you if i've missed out anything. >> you gotten it right. the way to understand this crisis is that it has three players. the first is congress and president trump who says, let's weaken the regulation, which hit really hard. the second part is the regulators themselves and in particular, the fed and jerome powell, the chairman of the federal reserve bank who took that change in the laws and he ran with it. in fact, he ran further than a lot of people even thought the law let him.
in tailoring the oversight of those banks in order to make it as weak as possible. by the way, just a little side note. i very much opposed being renominated to the federal reserve bank and the reason was this. what he had done on using the opportunities he had by the change in law in 2018 to weaken bank regulations, and in my view, he was headed to the wrong direction, which made him dangerous in the position of chair of the fed. there is part three, which is those executives. those bank ceos who lobbied hard to get this change in law. those are the ones who when the window opened, they were ready to go. they went out and they decided to load up on risk. why? they loaded up on risk because it made their banks more
profitable and it meant it made them have higher salaries. they got to rule over bigger banks. they got big bonuses. they brought in their friends and they did all of that by taking on more risk. it worked. svb increased its profitability of the last three years by 40%. they took on all of the risk and make themselves more profitable right up to the day that the bank exploded. that is the story. part two, the regulators and part three, the executives who took advantage. >> people watching this right now and people trust you on these issues, because this is how we got to know you. they are expanding these difficult things. people around the country watching who don't have deposits at silvergate bank or
silicon valley bank may not have heard of these. they are wondering if this is a problem that is specific to the tech industry, which is silicon valley bank and the crypto industry, which seems to be tied to signature and these other banks. is this something that is combined to niche areas of the economy or something that you are describing that applies to other banks and bigger banks, as well? >> when you talked about regulation, one little twist on it is that we really have had since dodd frank a two-tiered regulatory system. one is for the community banks, which is touch regulation. it says that they didn't cause the crash in 2008 and they are not going to cause a crash later on. they are pretty simple how they
are run and pretty straightforward. they served the community. frankly, they don't need a lot of oversight. that is great. it works well. if you have your money in a bank, good for you. it will be fine. the largest bank still has the tough regulation that dodd frank put in place. what happened is these beings are called regional banks. they are really national. it is the stealer of banks that are big and the old-line had been anybody more than $50 billion in assets is going to be subject to strong regulation. they've got it changed to 250 billion. you have this group of very aggressive banks. some are more aggressive than others and some are more wild than others. that is where the problem is.
what the president of the u.s. has said and i want to stop here and say, am i glad that president biden is president right now. he approached this in a way that is very calm, stayed on top of it and said, we are going to have to do something to we are going to have to tell all of those small businesses who got their money in those banks and nonprofits who have got the money in those banks and folks who are worried about meeting payroll when monday rolls around, their money is fully protected. that is what everybody needs to know. if you are a depositor, your money is protected. take a deep breath. nothing you need to worry about on that end. our job is to think about the system overall. that means congress to act. congress needs to roll back the
trump bank regulation reliefs. we need to make a change, because it will affect the regulators and the regulators will make sure that they are engaging in closer supervision over those and it in turn will reign in any of the ceos that thinks thinking is a place to get multimillion dollar salary . you and i talked about this before. what should thinking be quick feet it should be boring . anybody who wants to take a lot of rest and make a lot of money should not be in thinking. it should be boring, which is how we need to make. we need to go back and get rid of the trump thinking bill and go back to better regulation. we do that, then we will make
it going again. >> a sign of a functioning democracy and a well-run holiday as one people? not only is it boring, but it becomes crystal clear on days like this for people who are right getting the last word about it and at least the ones who get the part in place. thank you for your clarity, as always. thank you joining us. >> thank you.   will be back. stay with us. lasting relief. xiidra treats the signs and symptoms of dry eye disease. don't use if allergic to xiidra. common side effects include eye irritation, discomfort or blurred vision when applied and unusual taste sensation. why wait? ask your eye doctor about a 90-day prescription for xiidra today. oh! it's daylight saving time. what's the big deal? gasp! what's the big deal? what's the big deal?
what's the big deal? what's the big deal? ♪marching band music♪ ♪marching band music♪ i'll get a cart. get two! scotts daylawn saving is the biggest deal of the year. stock up early and save up to $20 dollars on the best scotts products. somewhere out there is that one-in-a-million. stock up early and save up to $20 dollars someone who thinks with their hands. who can shape raw materials into something meaningful. and who wants to serve in their own way. if you're out there. if you're looking for more. we're looking too. we're calling on a new generation of builders for navy's next-gen submarines. whoa. okay. easy does it. we switched to liberty mutual and saved $652. they customize your car insurance, so you only pay for what you need.
with the money we saved, we thought we'd try electric unicycles. whoa! careful, babe! saving was definitely easier. hey babe, i think i got it! it's actually... whooooa! ok, show-off! help! oh! only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ your brain is an amazing thing. but as you get older, it naturally begins to change, causing a lack of sharpness, or even trouble with recall. thankfully, the breakthrough in prevagen helps your brain and actually improves memory. the secret is an ingredient originally discovered... in jellyfish. in clinical trials, prevagen has been shown to improve short-term memory. prevagen. at stores everywhere without a prescription. dupixent helps you du more with less asthma. and can help you breathe better in as little as 2 weeks. dupixent is an add-on treatment for specific types of moderate-to-severe asthma
that's not for sudden breathing problems. dupixent can cause allergic reactions that can be severe. get help right away if you have rash, chest pain, worsening shortness of breath, tingling or numbness in your limbs. tell your doctor about new or worsening joint aches and pain, or a parasitic infection. don't change or stop asthma medicines, including steroids, without talking to your doctor. ask your specialist about dupixent. for businesses of all sizes, including steroids, without talking to your doctor. there are a lot of choices when it comes to your internet and technology needs. when you choose comcast business internet, you choose the largest, fastest reliable network. you choose advanced security for total peace of mind. and you choose a next generation 10g network that's always improving, getting faster; more reliable; and more intelligent to keep you ready for today and tomorrow. the choice is clear: make your business future ready with the network from the most innovative company. comcast business.

chances are you heard of an american author called jody. perhaps you read couple of her books. she has published nearly 30 bucks and sold tens of millions of bucks. she is the best-selling author and she is huge. a few days ago, she was shocked to learn that one of her books has been banned. the book is called the storyteller and it is about the holocaust. it is about a county in florida and they have banded from their school libraries under republican governor ron desantis is broad about what kids can and cannot read. the storyteller is a novel about the holocaust. anti-semitism, fascism in germany. it was a strange irony that they wanted this particular book removed because it was like history repeating itself.
that feeling and stuff we thought we left behind is rearing its head again and that feeling is happening a lot these days. last week, house republicans held a hearing supposedly on the origin of covid and they invited as their expert witness this guy. he is famous for writing a book claiming that jewish people are genetically evolved and biologically programmed to love money. that was their expert they brought in on the science of covid. meanwhile, here is a picture of former president trump's adult son eric who is on the left. he is the blonde one. here is a yacht with a guy who he is traveling the country with. the guy on his left and are right is an anti-community conspiracy theorist. he says that hitler was fighting the same people that we are trying to take down today. eric trump this /11 guy are
traveling the country as part of the reawakened american tour. in may, the roadshow will be taking over one of donald trump florida properties for a weekend . this weekend in florida, police issued citations to five men for dumping hundreds of anti-semitic flyers across a neighborhood in west palm beach. the men were not much stayed arrested, but were ticketed for littering. a group of self-described who have been projecting five-story tall swastikas and other imagery on tall buildings in the city of jacksonville florida. then, there was ohio this weekend. right wing extremists and ask groups have been targeting drug queen story hours. what happened in ohio was a different order of attitudes. one drug queen storytelling event in ohio drew hundreds of
protesters, including lots of full on . many of them were armed and a lot of them were carrying swastika flags and shouting. i willshowyou a little bit of footage we obtained from the event, because they don't want to give these guys the facility publicity, but i willshowyou a little bit to get a sense of how unnerving this must have been for the community. it goes without saying, but you may find this footage of setting. here it is. >> willmar conditions. willmar conditions. >> you can hear them say solutions and conditions. they are talking about hitler overthrowing the republic. you know what his solution was?
again, these guys are out in numbers and enforce a screaming at ohio kids this weekend. we got some folks on the right trying to banned books about the rise of -ism and anti- semitism in 1930. others are literally trying to make it happen all over again. stay with us. we got more to come. get directv with a two year price guarantee. if you're turning 65 soon or over 65 and planning to retire... now's the time to learn more about an aarp medicare supplement insurance plan from unitedhealthcare and get help protecting yourself from the out-of-pocket costs medicare doesn't pay. because the time to prepare is before you go on medicare. don't wait. get started today. call unitedhealthcare for your free decision guide.
♪ this feels so right... ♪ adt systems now feature google products like the nest cam with floodlight, with intelligent alerts when a person or familiar face is detected. sam. sophie's not here tonight. so you have a home with no worries. brought to you by adt. known as a loving parent. so you have a home with no worries. known for lessons that matter. known for lessons that matter. known for being a free spirit. no one wants to be known for cancer, but a treatment can be. keytruda is known to treat cancer, fda-approved for 16 types of cancer. one of those cancers is advanced nonsquamous, non-small cell lung cancer, where keytruda is approved to be used with certain chemotherapies as your first treatment if you do not have an abnormal "egfr" or "alk" gene.
keytruda can cause your immune system to attack healthy parts of your body during or after treatment. this may be severe and lead to death. see your doctor right away if you have cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, diarrhea, severe stomach pain, severe nausea or vomiting, headache, light sensitivity, eye problems, irregular heartbeat, extreme tiredness, constipation, dizziness or fainting, changes in appetite, thirst, or urine, confusion, memory problems, muscle pain or weakness, fever, rash, itching, or flushing. there may be other side effects. tell your doctor about all your medical conditions, including immune system problems, if you've had or plan to have an organ or stem cell transplant, received chest radiation or have a nervous system problem. depending on the type of cancer, keytruda may be used alone or in combination with other treatments, and is also being studied in hundreds of clinical trials, exploring ways to treat even more types of cancer. it's tru. keytruda from merck. see all the types of cancer keytruda is known for at keytruda.com and ask your doctor if keytruda could be right for you. >> tech: when you have auto glass damage, trust safelite.
we'll replace your windshield, and recalibrate your advanced safety system. so automatic emergency braking and lane departure warning work properly. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ even if you like a house, lowball the first offer. the house whisperer! this house says use the realtor.com app to see three different estimates. also, don't take advice from people who don't know what they're talking about. realtor.com to each their home. ♪ ♪ start your day with nature made. the #1 pharmacist recommended vitamin and supplement brand.

we have become focused on this country and in the past couple of years and in this your particular on really violent extremism that is gushing out of political far right in this country. we have focused on it a lot in theshowin particular. it is important that we don't look away. when we talk about not just the extremes or ultra right, but when we talk about conservatives gaining electoral power in this country even as the very far right feels more empowered to be more extreme, we have to look at how republicans are approaching governing and gaining and exerting power over the american people. more republicans are doing that with structural changes that they are making to our country and changing the way we run our elections. we can and bending the role of laws in some cases and make it easier for them to hold onto power and harder for anybody
else to take it from them. this is happening at a time that one of the big thinkers of my generation and one of the big thinkers of my time in terms of general craddick party politics among the people in charge of conservative dominance is leaving his job. his name is guy cecil and whether or not he is a household in your household, he is a longtime fixture in democratic politics. worked on the provincial campaign in 2008 and worked to get democrats elected in 2015. he took over a chairman of a democratic super pack called priorities usa. it was born out of citizens united supreme court ruling, which allowed big money back into politics. it was basically the democratic party's answer to that ruling. under his leadership, guy cecil turned the run-of-the-mill super pack into what is now a big tool in the democratic
party electoral toolbox under his tenure, priority receipt posted more than 12,000 at promoting democrats and democratic causes. there is more than $650 million to try to help democrats up and down the ballot. their ads, campaigns were crucial in flipping the house in 2018 and holding onto the senate in 2022. he is one of the parties biggest thinkers in terms of democratic saturday and what they should be doing to counter republican electoral machination. now, he is doing that. he is leaving the job and leaving at the end of this month after eight years in that landmark and important job, which made me want to grab him to for something i hope i can sneak in as a kind of exit interview without letting him know that's what i'm doing. he joins us onset for his first tv interview with the announcement. it's nice to see you. >> thank you. >> maybe i should stay. i don't know.
>> you are not household name in every household, but for political junkies and for people who know how it works, you are a big deal. are you leaving for some intriguing reason? >> no. nothing wrong. >> you want to do something different? >> i never imagined in 2015 that i would be here eight years later. at the time, we were traditional and ran ads. we existed every four years to do that. we realized that this is not the way we win. republicans invest in the long term. they invest in the federalist society and institutions that are just about one issue or candidate, but about making long-term ideological change. the fact that we have this opportunity, so let's identify a couple of structural gaps we see and let us help the democratic party and progressive left fill some of the gaps. we are doing that.
we have had the same leadership team for six years. i can talk about our great work, but the reality is that we have a team led by our executive director daniel who will continue doing this work. how do we close the digital divide between the left and right? how do we counter the algorithm that rewards hatred and right- wing ideology? how do we make sure we are fighting not just against voter suppression and location, but this information see all of those things will continue. i think organizations benefit change. they benefit from new leadership and fresh thinking. it is important for leaders of those organizations to take a step back and remove themselves from the minute by minute work and ask themselves what am i called to do? for me, knowing the organization was going to be in good shape and having trust in our leadership, it is the right time to take a step back and
look at what is happening in our country and how i can invest best serve. >> i trust you in explaining those things. at this point, where do you feel like the democratic party has ground that it can reasonably makeup? not just for the democratic party behind, but where it can do it and catch up to the republicans on some of these structural long-term projects that federal society and other groups on the right have had an advantage. >> their larger cohort of leaders. there is over $1.4 billion being invested and essentially creating federalist societies that are just focused on courts, but silicon valley, education, technology. we are not prepared to combat that?
so much is based on an issue were a candidate. claimant is my number one issue. criminal justice is my number one issue. i like barack obama, but i wasn't sure about hillary clinton. not enough of our focus is on how we make sure that we are laying the ideological ground through all various levers. the second is more of an intern of how we communicate. our party is diverse and we are unwieldy. part of that comes because we are much more diverse than the republican party. there are more backgrounds and a lot of issues that we care passionately about. we fetishize the use of data and analytics. we think that there is a magic issue. we preach caricatures out of our voters. what that does is make it difficult to communicate across the diversity of our party. black voters care about
criminal justice reform. they also care about good paying jobs, healthcare and education in the same way that other families do. we are turning our voters and presenting a broader image of what we want the country to be. >> the structural approach you are describing and the other that we have done this policy approach. every institution and feeder institution that leads to those, you got committed people who over the course of their entire career are going to be -- set a bead on achieving the ideological goals of the movement. the right thinks the left does that and the left does not do that. that work is the sort of thing you have to plan a generation
ahead for. >> yes. there are two things that are really important. there is a mythology that we are a party of a big government and small limited government. that is not true. republicans are the party of limited government when it comes to helping the middle class and preserving our ability to take care of the poor and ensure that social security is in place. in all those instances, small government, but they want a large activist government when it comes to litigating my marriage to my husband and controlling american women and protecting the rights of domestic abusers with access to guns. the entire evangelical movement -- these to be a baptist minister before i got into politics. the entire evangelical conservative moment sold for one issue and they apologized for six years and continue to do so. they had their eye on the long term, which was destroying roe v. wade, nationalizing a ban on abortion.
we need more long-term about how we will engage at every level of the valid and across all different influence, because the reality is that most americans agree with us on most issues. we have to ask ourselves, whose fault is it that we are not effectively communicating those things? we have a democratic senate and i love language is anxiety in the democratic party, but it is important for us to take a step back and say, what can we do better? we really are trying to make our country more fair, prosperous and our job is to do the hard work to make that happen. >> guy cecil the last eight years who was chairman and has done way more than you think to shape what you have heard from any democratic party or caused. good luck. >> i'd appreciate it. thank you.
skin your face will envy? with olay hyaluronic body wash 95% of women had visibly-better skin from dry to moisturized in just 12 days. be fearless with olay hyaluronic body wash and body lotion. as americans, there's one thing we can all agree on. the promise of our constitution and the hope that liberty and justice is for all people. but here's the truth. attacks on our constitutional rights, yours and mine are greater than they've ever been. the right for all to vote. reproductive rights. the rights of immigrant families. the right to equal justice for black, brown and lgbtq+ folks. the time to act to protect our rights is now. that's why i'm hoping you'll join me today in supporting the american civil liberties union. it's easy to make a difference. just call or go online now and become an aclu guardian of liberty.
all it takes is just $19 a month. only $0.63 a day. your monthly support will make you part of the movement to protect the rights of all people, including the fundamental right to vote. states are passing laws that would suppress the right to vote. we are going backwards. but the aclu can't do this important work without the support of people like you. you can help ensure liberty and justice for all and make sure that every vote is counted. so please call the aclu now or go to my aclu.org and join us. when you use your credit card, you'll receive this special we the people t-shirt and much more. toshowyou're a part of the movement to protect the rights guaranteed to all of us by the us constitution. we protect everyone's rights, the freedom of religion, the freedom of expression, racial justice, lgbtq rights, the rights of the disabled. we are here for everyone. it is more important
than ever to take a stand. so please join us today. because we the people means all the people, including you. so call now or go online to my aclu.org to become a guardian of liberty. when cold symptoms keep you up, try vicks nyquil severe. just one dose starts to relieve 9 of your worst cold and flu symptoms, to help take you from 9 to none. for max-strength nighttime relief, nyquil severe. when you stay at a vrbo the host doesn't stay with you. because without privacy in your vacation home, it isn't really a vacation... ...is it? [birds chirping]
>> that's new fresh tonight. thanks so mu