but that's fine. what do you your way on to m mine, we all get to live i security with prosperity and peace but there is a big ten and that is the way th american experiment, the pluralistic democratic experiment works that's why so many of ou parents came to this country it's a given take, it's mutual respect, and reciprocity the way you are doing it now b aligning with right-wing mob that have manufactured feare and panic in our communities i not the way and will only lead to long term disaster for ou communities and our allies >> it's the manufacture part o it that really worries me. thank you both, appreciate it. that is all in on this monda night, chris hayes will be bac tomorrow night you can watch the mehdi hassanshowsundays at a pm eastern right here on msnbc. it it streams weekly on peacock therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. >> good evening. much appreciated thanks at home for joining us this hour. i'm happy to have you here a lot going on in the news right
now. it is turning out to be an unusual news day which may be in part a function of the holiday i don't think so i think it is just turning out to be an unusual news day. this remarkable search and rescue operation is still underway about 370 miles off the coast of new foundland in the north atlantic a sub marine is an autonomous submersible, as opposed to a sub marine, goes under the water but it is not autonomous it has to use a ship or a surface platform as a kind of home base to which it is linked. the vehicle that has been lost, that they are lack for right now, is a submersible. the ship from which it launched lost contact with it yesterday about 1:45 after it started a dive the dive was supposed to be
about two and a half hours down. three hours on the bottom of the ocean, and then another two and a half hours back. it was supposed to be about eight hours beneath the waves. about 1:45 into that mission, they reportedly lost communication. on the submersible, there are five people on board the reason they were going down, the reason they were in that part of the north atlantic is because they were planning to go look at the ship-wrecked ruins of the titanic it should have been about two and a half hours diving down roughly two miles to see the shipwreck. about three hours down there looking at it and then another two and a half hours coming back up those two miles back through the sea. but this submersible has been out of touch and missing since it first dove yesterday morning. sunday morning so the canadians and the u.s. coast guard are out there and up
there with aircraft looking for it i think a new york national guard aircraft is joining the search as well the vessel is only about the size of a pickup truck it is like 22 feet long. again, five people on board. if those five people are alive on board, they've reportedly got enough oxygen on that vessel to last them about four days. again, they've been out of communication since yesterday morning. so that search is still underway as we speak. we'll let you know more as we know more tonight.   there's also been some developments in the criminal prosecution of former president donald trump a federal judge in his case has ruled that trump will be subject to a protective order when it comes to the evidence that will be disclosed to him as part of the case he's not allowed toshowany of that evidence to the public or to the media he's not even allowed to look at it alone he can only look at it in the presence of his lawyers.
it is not at all a surprise that this order has been issued trump's lawyers didn't even object when the prosecution proposed this time of directory. this is, he says persecuted, when it comes to someone being prosecuted under the espionage act. a protective order around an espionage case almost goes without saying it's just that it's never going to not be astonishing that this is a former president who is in the middle of being prosecuted under the espionage act and therefore, he has to sign off on a formal protective order from the court covering his handling of the evidence that will be forthcoming in his criminal case that will never not be an astonishing thing to have to absorb and report on now in a daily way. the "washington post" has a gigantic like 8,000 word
exclusive story about basically what took justice department so long to get to this point of bringing federal charges against trump. specifically, what took them so long to even start a concerted investigation, not under the espionage act, about him mishandling classified information. the stuff he's already been charged for. what the post really looked at today is what took the u.s. justice department so long to start investigating trump's role in trying to overthrow the u.s. government trying to stay in power by force after he lost re-election. the bottom line finding of the post investigation is essentially that it has taken so long taken long enough that if there are charges brought, it will be not only butting up against the other federal case against him it will be definitely leaking into the presidential primary calendar under which he is running for president to try to be the republican nominee again.
the post bottom line in their investigation is that this has all taken so long basically because the justice department under merrick garland has been very cautious and very slow-moving. also, that the fbi under christopher wray has been something more than that they've essentially been throwing sand in the gears not just slowing things down but also, saying no to participating in certain investigations. even when they later say yes to those same requests. now that the government overthrow part of the trump federal criminal investigation is under the auspices of special counsel jack smith, so it's being run in some ways independent of the justice department, that part of the investigation into trump, which could theoretically yield a second federal indictment of him. the post does portray that as now moving faster under jack smith, potentially even toward a close, but it was a year plus of
delay and foot shuffling at the justice department while they really internally could not agree on how to proceed in that part of the investigation. it's interesting there are revelations in the "washington post" today about a part of that jack smith investigation that we covered really intensively on theshowwhich was the so-called fake electors plot. the apparent plot by the trump campaign and the trump white house to organize republicans in a handful of states to declare formally that trump had won those states, even though he had lost them. and the fraud problem with his alleged plot is that these groups of republicans in all the different states, apparently at trump's direction, they actually formally reported themselves to the national archives and to the congress as if they were the official electors from those states when they were not. now, we covered that story of alleged criminal fraud, a scheme
orchestrated from the trump white house and from the trump campaign, and carried out by republicans in multiple states we covered that story really intensively here you might remember we broke that story on theshow. we know there have been investigations related to those alleged crimes in at left a two states, georgia and michigan, and now federally under jack smith at the justice department. the "washington post" today gives us some updates on how that part of investigation is un unfolding. the charges related to the electors em62. we'll have all that coming up. it's been an unusual and interesting news day today we start here tonight with a story out of the great state of florida. florida and the 1950s. florida governed very much as a deep south state a long series of segregationist governors even
in a state with the fastest growing population in the country and an increasingly diverse population, getting more and more diverse all the time in florida cities that state in the 1950s was run by hard-line conservatives just from the rural parts of the state. very, very conservative state in terms of its governance in the '50s in the 1950s, the most prominent politicians in the flrd state government, they decided they would go after the naacp and they were going to make a bigshowof it bring the power of the state government to bear on going after and exposing and running to ground the naacp because they said the naacp was a bunch of communists the naacp was, of course, fighting for civil rights, for desegregation among other things florida conservatives and
florida state government at the time, they decided that this was marxism. this was communism and they were going to pend in the state of florida using the power of the state government. so in the '50s, they convened hearings in which they planned basically to harang and make a public example out of some of these naacp comies and they called up naacp members as their witnesses for these live hearings. and what survives on tape from that history which we have the benefit of today is that those naacp witnesses were having none of it. they were not going to take this lying down they wouldn't be used for some political stunt. when push came to shove and it was time for the republican hearings, they ran rings around the politicians. they ran rings around this florida inquisition that was
supposed to shut them down listen to this >> i protest against this committee. i think it is illegal, immoral, and indecent >> i was born and reared in dade county i believe in the principles of the constitution of the united states i would not permit this committee or any other committee to intimidate me nor to deny me my lawful constitutional rights. >> these poised, defiant witnesses, they seemed to flummox the committee. >> i want to say that we the witnesses defied our legislative economy when we were down at miami. it was simply ridiculous and i feel this committee should go back down there and call those witnesses who were forced to testify. if they refuse, we should put them in jail and let them stay there. >> they didn't cooperate with us at all we should put them in jail
that sound from today's episode, episode number 2 of my new podcast, deja news i'm really proud of it and really happy with the way it came out there are six episodes altogether the second one posted today. you heard it along with my guests from the florida naacp and also, the conservative florida legislative leader charlie johns complaining so bad about these witnesses who had humiliated him at his own hearing. so the reason we just did a podcast about this, about the florida inquisitions in the 1950s and the 1960s, and those inquisitions going so poorly for florida's state government conservatives who thought they would be great the reason we did this about this time in history in florida is because it does give you a
deja news feeling when you realize that this today is the most powerful guy in florida and he really is singing the same kind of tune >> that means we're required to wage a war on woke and that's what we are going to do. woke, some people say, i don't care about woke. i don't care there is huge value in recognizing that this is a form of cultural marxism when things like esg take over our economy when woke ideology takes over our education system when woke ideology takes over the criminal justice system. so woke ideology, the woke in the schools, the woke in the corporations, the woke in the halls of the congress. surrender to the woke mob. >> the man has a them a. the man has a theme and he is sticking to it that was republican contender
and florida republican governor ron desantis showing of on his rhetorical skills as a campaigner in nevada this constant iteration of all the things woke, this is what he think there's propel him to the white house. i will tell you. it did not work out that way for the last florida politician who tried to make a big floridashowout of attacking civil rights groups and attacking gay people and attacking schools, and trying to make hot politics out of teachers' lessons plans this has been tried before in that same state not that long ago. and it had a very unhappy political ending for the politicians who tried it yes. it worked for them for a little while and they got very excited about that and they thought they could ride it forever but it crash-landed when people decided they were sick of it as we head into this new odd season of presidential
nominating politics, with the front runner indicted and facing trial in two jurisdictions on more than 60 felonies combined, and maybe more to come, consider also that the runner up to the front runner in republican polling right now is really pitching his whole tent on this crusade against wokeness meanwhile today in florida, the naacp, the same naacp that ran rings around the last florida politician who tried to run this play book in the 950s, today they launch ad five-day bus tar. a five-day 15-city bus tour in florida on what they're calling the stay woke tour stay woke florida. funny, they don't think of it as an epithet a rolling protest. they started off today rolling the stay woke bus into tallahassee and then gainesville. they'll hit 15 cities in florida over the next five days. they're calling it the stay woke
florida tour from the naacp. just as governor ronald desantis is traveling the country to all the early voting states. perhaps assuming he doesn't have to become a good speaker if he can just keep waggling his finger like he's mad at them and saying the word "woke" over and over again and that's all he will need. that'll will do the trick for h him. it's funny not everybody hears the word the way you do the reason the stay woke tour kicked offer today is because today is june 19th aka juneteenth the confederate army lost the civil war, surrendered in 1865 it was not until june 19th, 1865, when the union army came to galveston, texas, to issue general order number 3 basically saying, yeah, we mean
it here, too. it said in accordance with the proclamation of the executive of the united states, all slaves are free and juneteenth has been an african american community celebration in the united states for generations since. as of last year, juneteenth is also a federal holiday in this country. today marks the second formal federal observation of june teentd as a federal holiday. but of course, it all started in texas. this past october in conroe texas, a new elementary school was opened it is called annett gordon reed elementary school. it's lovely. it is named for a little first grade girl who in 964 became the first black child to integrate the school segregated schools of conrad, texas.
it was ten years after the brown versus board of education ruling, that was 954 this was 1964. but it took all those ten years. it took ten years for the first black student to brave the threshold of a white cool in conroe, texas. this is a town that had seen lynchings. this was a town that had seen a black man literally burned at the stake at the courthouse square in the 1920s. in the early 1940s, a black man was accused of raping a white woman. he was literally murdered in the courthouse during his trim during his trial, a man stood up in the courtroom shot the man in the head in front of the judge in front of the jury, in front of the spectators. that man who fired the shot was acquitted of the murder. when you commit murder in the courtroom in front of the judge and they are then going to acquit you of it, conroe texas
was not a place for the faint hearted to brave integration it was a little first grade girl who did it she got great grades she was great in school. she went on to be a ph.d. historian. she wrote the hemmings of monticello for which she won the pulitzer prize in history. she's a university professor at harvard. when you hear someone say a university professor, that is a big deal she is a pulitzer prize winner she is a texan and she is the author most recently of the book "on juneteenth." joining us now, annett gordon reed i'm really grateful you were able to join us tonight. >> thank you for inviting me i'm happy to be here
>> let me ask you first. i feel like you've done so much in your scholarship and your writing to paint a portrait of juneteenth in texas. in texas history and texas communities. i woontd to ask you how you feel we're doing as a country celebrating juneteenth as a federal holiday. >> i've been quite impressed with what i've seen. my husband gives me listings of events going on around the country. we seem to be doing a good job keeping the basic spirit of the holiday, of the celebration. good food and so forth but also, paying attention to the reason, the important reason for why we celebrate this. i've been very pleased with what has happened so far. that it doesn't just become a day for mattress sales and so forth. that'll this will be really important and special. >> it strikes me as an important
confluence of events in the united states that we are again just at the very beginning of celebrating juneteenth, this very particular celebration. this very important moment in african american history and american history as a country for the first time while we are also having this big culture war movement against teaching civil rights history >> it is strange >> i don't think one is causetive of the other >> what i'm hoping is we will overwhelm the forces of people who want to cut back or hide history and we'll keep going forward with it. it is strange. in texas there have been moves to limit what can be taught about history. what you can say about texas history. so far, juneteenth has escaped that but we can't rest on our
laurels. we have to be bold and continue to celebrate the holiday and to talk about the history that makes this important the legacies of slavery, what happened before that and after that it is a really tricky time that we're in >> the thing that strikes me, it always does, but particularly in your writing of it, about juneteenth, one of the important things about this as a holiday is it is a holiday that marks celebration. it is obviously a pivot point in american history the darkest thing about us as a country. what this day marks, getting news that things would change. it was something to commemorate, it's not even just celebratory it is about acknowledgement of change toward a better future. and i feel like that has a
kernel that americans can cross divides and turn this into something that is different than most of the holidays we've got >> oh, yes, it's a celebration but also a commemoration the celebration recognizes the joy that people felt knowing they would no longer, it would no longer be possible to legally separate family. the main trauma was never seeing your mother and your mother and children again because they were treated as chattel and sold. whipping and all those things. they knew they would be in for a struggle you're happy that one thing has ended but a new struggle begins. and that's the thing that as you are a suggesting makes the holiday fertile ground for conversation and perhaps conversation even across, well, definitely across racial lines maybe across party line even to the extent we can do that these days >> and we shouldn't overstate
the idea that this is settled as a matter of something where we all agree as a country that this is something we will celebrate and commemorate. there is a story i saw in the mississippi free press that in mississippi, state offices were open today a couple months ago, when mississippi celebrates the state holiday of confederate memorial day, they closed so state offices closed for confederate day but open for junteenth. >> it's not surprising but it is disheartening. you have to keep going in the face of all that that's what we've done since 1865 keep going in the face of a lot of recalitrance. >> the offer most recently of "on juneteenth," the name sake of annette gordon reed
elementary school in texas thank you. >> thank you for inviting me >> i appreciate it all right. much more ahead. to help prevent bleeding gums. try saying 'hello gumwash' with parodontax active gum health. it kills 99% plaque bacteria. and forms an antibacterial shield. try parodontax active gum health mouthwash. welcome to my digestive system. it's pretty calm in here with align probiotic. you see... your gut has good and bad bacteria. and when you get off balance, you may feel it. the bloating, the gas - but align helps me trust my gut again. plus, its recommended by doctors nearly 2x more than any other probiotic brand.
just one a day naturally helps promote a balanced gut. and soothe occasional bloating gas and discomfort. align probiotic. welcome to an align gut. i'm saving with liberty mutual, mom. they customize your car insurance so you only pay for what you need. you could save $700 dollars just by switching. ooooh, let me put a reminder on my phone. on the top of the pile! oh. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ hey. what are you doing right now? you up for something impetuous? i'm a palm springs hotel. i got the desert air, sun-kissed pools, and shady hideaways. i'm looking for someone who can decide on a friday that a one night commitment on a saturday is a fine idea. maybe you heard of the rat pack? they hung out here all the time. so, pack a bag. or don't. you could be here in a few hours. meet me at hotels.com i'm kareem abdul jabbar. i was diagnosed with afib. the first inkling that something was wrong
was i started to notice that i couldn't do things without losing my breath. i couldn't make it through the airport, and every like 20 or 30 yards i had to sit down and get my breath. every physical exertion seemed to exhaust me. and finally, i went to the hospital where i was diagnosed with afib. when i first noticed symptoms, which kept coming and going, i should have gone to the doctor and told them what was happening. instead, i tried to let it pass. if you experience irregular heartbeat, heart racing, chest pain, shortness of breath, fatigue, or light-headedness, you should talk to your doctor. afib increases the risk of stroke about 5 times i want my experience to help others understand the symptoms of atrial fibrillation. when it comes to your health, this is no time to wait. is a new title really necessary? sir, after bestowing the gift of renting ease to millions, a bump is in order. okay, let's see.
master of the rentalsphere. wow! oh, is it too much? apartments.com the place to find a place. as a business owner, your bottom line is always top of mind. so start saving by switching to the mobile service designed for small business: comcast business mobile. flexible data plans mean you can get unlimited data or pay by the gig. all on the most reliable 5g network, with no line activation fees or term contracts... saving you up to 75% a year. and it's only available to comcast business internet customers. so boost your bottom line by switching today. comcast business. powering possibilities™.
we have seen as you've pointed out multiple times now various different false legislative electors from seven different states in what seems to be a ready coo natd effort between the republican parties
in various states. we think this is a matter that is best investigated and potentially prosecuted by the feds as such, just today, we referred this matter to the western district, the u.s. attorney's office for them to evaluate it >> that was michigan's attorney general dana speaking on thisshowin january 2022 wondering why republicans in multiple states had sent in fake electoral votes from fake presidential electors, as though donald trump had won their states when he had not they clearly hoped when vice president pence went to certify the results on january 6th, he would use their fake votes from the fake electors for trump instead of the real ones for biden and in so doing, he would make donald trump president. the michigan attorney general told us that night in january 2022, so a year after the january 6th attack on the
capitol, she told us that this matter of the fake electors she believed was best investigated and potentially prosecuted at the federal level. she told us that night that she had referred this matter to the justice department january 13, 2022 january 13, 2022 that was a long time ago now whatever happened to that? we covered this story intensively at the time. we had the documents we had the fake slates of electors because the republicans who were involved in the scheme actually sent them in to the national archives which is where real electoral votes are supposed to be sent. you can see the real lettingor documents. you can see every state does them a little differently. they all come one some variety of certificate they have their own quirks, their own fancy or not fancy payment, decorations and seals this is what the real one looks like look at the forged republican
documents. they do not look so fancy. in fact, they match. the same formatting, same font, same spacing and almost the exact same wording on every single one because of the obvious similarities between all these forged documents from all these different states, it really didn't seem like this, the republicans in all these different states, all independently had the same idea that they would all commit this kind of fraud all in the same font if that was happening independently, they would have all sent in documents sort of different or at least matched what the proper format was supposed to look like in their state. instead, they all matched from all the different states it appeared to be a coordinated effort somebody telling all these republicans in all the different states here's what you'll do. put your name here the fake elector scheme, apparently a centrally organized
scheme operating through multiple states. it is now part of at least three criminal investigations that we know of. one brought by a prosecutor in georgia. another on the federal level out of the u.s. department of justice under jack smith, and also in michigan the michigan attorney general announced earlier this area that she was taking back this case and reopening it in michigan since the doj hadn't yet reacted on her referral a area earlier what we've now learned today is confirmation that at least the federal investigation took a really, really long time to get going on this matter and in the "washington post" today, we learned some of the reasons why. the "washington post" has a kind of blockbuster report today. like 8,000 words describing in detail what has been going on inside doj since january 6th as fears of seeming partisan or overly aggressive essentially
stalled big portions of the justice department investigation into trump for more than a year. the post says today that the justice department was alerted to the fake elector's scheme right after it happened in early 2021 officials at the national archives had discovered similarities in the fraudulent slates of electors for trump that his republican allies had submitted to congress and the archives they asked the doj elections crime branch to consider investigating these seemingly coordinated effort in swing states according to two people familiar with the decision, the justice department declined that investigation suggested to them by the inspector general's office they declined to investigating it, citing its prosecutors disc discretion doj decided instead they would start with the small fry they would work up to the bigger fish they would arrest and prosecute
individual rioters from january 6th, and not worry so much about the people who orchestrated it as a way to overthrow the u.s. government so in early 2021, doj declined to investigate the electors and instead close to go after the people who physically attacked the capitol. the national press has started to pick up the story dana nessel announced on our air that she wants the justice department to investigate this the january 6th investigation in congress starts very publicly lack into the fake elector plot themselves now thanks to this new reporting today in the "washington post," we know that those things combined finally got the justice department interested in the fake electors again. quote, one person directly familiar with the department's new interest in the case said it felt as though the department was reacting to the house
committee's work as well as heightened media coverage and commentary only after they were embarrassed did they started looking, the person said. it did not go quickly. lawyers of the fbi and justice department launched into what became many weeks of debate over the justification for the investigation and how it should be worded. one time consuming issue became whether to name trump as a subject. finally, as public pressure mounted, in april 2022, more than 15 months after the attack, fbi director christopher wray signed off on the authorization opening a criminal investigation into the fake electors plot. it has been a year and a half since we began talking about the fake elector scheme on thisshowalmost two and a half years since the justice department was first advised to start looking into it. still no federal charges, but now we at least have an idea why it has been taking so long to
reach this point thanks to this great reporting go from the "washington post" today, we posted a link atmaddowblog tonight. i commend it to you. it is worth reading for yourself we'll be right back. revention with just one pill a day. choose acid prevention. choose nexium. hi, i'm ron reagan, an unabashed atheist. and i'm alarmed, as you may be, by the intrusions of religion into our secular government. that's why i'm asking you to join the freedom from religion foundation, the nation's largest and most effective association of atheists and agnostics working to keep state and church separate, just like our founders intended.
please join the freedom from religion foundation today. ron reagan, lifelong atheist, not afraid of burning in hell.
- this is our premium platinum coverage map and this is consumer cellular's map. - i don't see the difference, do you? - well, that one's purple. - [announcer] get the exact same coverage as the nation's leading carrier. starting at $20. consumer cellular. we're traveling all across america talking to people about their hearts. ooh, take this exit. how's the heart? i feel like it's good. you feel like it's good? how do you know when it's time to check in on your heart? how do you know? let meshowyou something. it looks like a credit card, but it is the kardiamobile card. that is a medical-grade ekg. want to see how it works? yeah. put both thumbs on there. that is your heart coming from the kardiamobile card. wow! with kardiamobile card you can take a medical-grade ekg in just 30 seconds from anywhere. kardiamobile card is proven to detect atrial fibrillation, one of the leading causes of stroke.
and it's the only personal ekg that's fda-cleared to detect normal heart rhythm, bradycardia and tachycardia. how much do you think that costs? probably $500. $99! oh really? you could carry that in your wallet! of course you can carry it in your wallet, right? yes, yes. checking your heart anytime, anywhere has never been easier. don't wait. get kardiamobile card for just $99 at kardia.com or amazon. i will be a travel influencer... hey, i thought you were on vacation? it's too expensive. use priceline, they've got deals no one else has. what about work? i got you. looking great you guys! ♪ go to your happy price ♪ ♪ priceline ♪
narrator: it's called, “shared leadership.” driven by each community in a groundbreaking setting: california's community schools. where parents and families, students and educators, make decisions as one. creating the school and shaping futures - together. based on the needs of their students... ...steeped in local culture. curriculum from cyber security to gardening. and assisting families with their needs: wellness centers, food pantries, and parental education. california's community schools: reimagining public education.   so the trial began today with a court spokesman making an announcement he said the court has decided to make this trial closed to the public the press is requested to leave the room they just announce that had once
everybody there to see it happening. the journalists were force out of the room and they were given instead a video feed of the proceedings. of course, there was sort of no sound on that video feed it was barely intelligible and then the in the middle of the proceedings, it cut out entirely with that media access was completely cut off to this trial. that was how the latest trial for russia's main opposition leader, alexei navalny proceeded today. following the latest trial that they're putting him through, he could face another 30 years behind bars. in a statement posted to social media byhis allies, his colleagues today, mr. navalny said the decision to close the trial to the public was a, quote, sign of fear by putin navalny told his supporters, he's scared of what i have to say. and in all honesty, that is probably a good assessment putin is probably scared of him.
in that same message, navalny announced the start of what is basically a political campaign to try to turn the russian public against russia's war in ukraine. he said he is enlisting the help of volunteers in every walk of life the plan is to use call centers outside of russia to reach out to every day russians to convince them to change their views on the war in ukraine. now, as ambitious as that sounds for anyone in russia, it probably should not surprise us that navalny would embark on something this ambitious, even while necessary prison and they're trying to put him away for 30 more years. he is such a resourceful and fearless and relentless opposition leader. the kremlin has tried everything they can to get rid of him they've already tried unsuccessfully to kill him in a nerve agent attack that strategy is one of the
thing that marks russia as an international rogue state. their assassinations and attempted assassinations of people, particularly their own people around the world. and we've obviously seen them do lots of this in russia one of the most dangerous places to be as a member of the russian elite is anywhere near a high floor window during the reign of vladimir putin we've seen them kill appealing in places lake germany and the u.k. now we've learned the shocking revelation that they've tried to do it in this country as well. "the new york times" today confirmed remarkable reporting that is set to appear in a soon to be published book that recounts a failed plot by the kremlin to assassinate a former russian intelligence official who became a cia informant the remarkable thing in terms of modern russian history is not that they wanted to kill the guy. they decided they wanted to kill him on u.s. soil in the united
states that russian intelligence officer had disclosed information. it resulted in discovering the spies living here in the u.s. under deep cover not surprisingly, the russian government was not at a pleased about that what we learned today was that in 2020, an attempt was made to take them out on american soil in miami now, that plot did not succeed but still, trying it here means something. and in a way, maybe this shouldn't be all that surprising given russia's previous patterns, we know what they're willing to do. but it does open a whole new captain worm with our relationship with them and what the implications of this might be this is a new rubikon that they have crossed in the united states joining us now is a former cia chief of operations in europe and eurasia. lots of experience dealing the w the russian government in all
sorts of ways he can't talk about. i appreciate you being on theshowwith us tonight thank you. >> good to be here >> so i mentioned, we know about russian efforts to track down and kill people. not just in russia but places like germany and the u.k as a former cia chief who has real expertise in this feel, does it strike you as significant? is this something new and important that they've tried to do the same thing in the united states >> well, it so for a long time, we saw europe as russia's intelligence playground there were successful and unsuccessful operations in the u.k. and in germany. russia was never deterred from doing this it would be a tit for tat expulsion. persona nongrata from countries but they were never deterred
so it looks like they tried to recruit a support asset for a pattern of layoff on an alleged defector who is living in miami. that mean trying to figure out for a future assassination team where this individual lived. how he parked his car. everyday moves for something that a lot of us thought was out of bounds which would be russian activity in the u.s. and i'll say something and i don't think a lot of people don't understand this. with russian de effectors, the craft can come into our countries up to 100 a area it's a large number and that's not important but it planes we give them permanent residence. that's a path to citizenship so the russians were not only trying to kill a defector, this is a u.s. citizen and that should alarm a lot of people
>> he's a defector he is install as a permanent resident, potentially as a u.s. citizen in a way that is supposed to be safe by reprisal from the country from which he def defected is it surprising that the kremlin could dispatch someone to get this close to him shouldn't he have been more protects >> the answer is yes i'm sure they tightened up their procedures the operation was not successful one of the things we've seen with defectors, of course, they don't always follow the rules. they miss home they contact relative that sometimes open them up to their home country finding out where
they are vladimir putin has a pathological hatred of defectors. he is a former intelligence ofrlser. this goes to his dna and he clearly has made the decision to go after individuals in the united states and we have to up our game and make sure, these were agents of ours. we have a sacrosanct responsibility to protect them >> former cia chief of operations in europe and eurasia, invaluable to have your expertise on the story tonight thank you for being hear >> thank you >> we'll be right back ♪ i'm goio somewhere, anywhere. ♪ ♪ a beach house, a treehouse, ♪ ♪ honestly i don't care ♪ find the perfect vacation rental for you booking.com, booking. yeah. i'm barbara and i'm from st. joseph, michigan. i'm a retired school librarian. i'm also a library board trustee, a mother of two, and a grandmother of two. basically, i thought that my memory
wasn't as good as it had been. i needed all the help i could get. i saw the commercials for prevagen. i started taking it. and it helped! i noticed my memory was better. there was definite improvement. i've been taking prevagen for a little over five years. prevagen. at stores everywhere without a prescription.
nexium 24hr prevents heartburn acid before it begins. get all-day and all-night heartburn acid prevention with just one pill a day. choose acid prevention. choose nexium. if we want a more viable future for our kids, we need to find more sustainable ways of doing things. america's plastic makers are investing billions of dollars in new technologies and creating plastic products that are more recyclable. durable. and dependable. our goal is a cleaner, healthier planet for generations to come. for a better tomorrow,
we're focused on making plastics better today. - [female narrator] five billion people for a better tomorrow, lack access to safe surgery. thousands of children are suffering and dying from treatable causes. for 40 years, mercy ships has deployed floating hospitals to provide the free surgeries these children need. join us. together, we can give children the hope and healing they never thought possible. it's a mission powered by love, made possible by you. give today.
when i was diagnosed with h-i-v, i didn't know who i would be. but here i am... being me. keep being you... and ask your healthcare provider about the number one prescribed h-i-v treatment, biktarvy. biktarvy is a complete, one-pill, once-a-day treatment used for h-i-v in many people whether you're 18 or 80. with one small pill, biktarvy fights h-i-v to help you get to undetectable—and stay there whether you're just starting or replacing your current treatment. research shows that taking h-i-v treatment as prescribed and getting to and staying undetectable prevents transmitting h-i-v through sex. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects include a buildup of lactic acid and liver problems. do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your healthcare provider. common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache. no matter where life takes you,
biktarvy can go with you. talk to your healthcare provider today.   this weekend, yesterday at a cafe in concord, new hampshire, as a drag queen with the glorious name of juicy garland held a family friendly story time event about a dozen masked members of a new england based neo-nazi group started repeatedly doing the nazi salute and banging on the windows and screaming at everybody inside. juicy garland herself complete the moment with her trademark twinge, saying in response, we've got some verified nazis today. golly, i didn't order those. her bravado notwithstanding, the concord police were called to the scene. no arrests were made the new hampshire attorney general's office said it is working with law enforcement officers to investigate.
last week it was these guys outside disney world in florida. you can see about a dozen little charmers waving nazi flags and other white supremacist signs along with one that appears to be promoting the candidacy, ron desantis the swastika waving people appear to be a new group this may have been their first in-person demonstration. oh, goody. also, just a few days ago the fbi announced the arrest of a young man in michigan for allegedly planning a mass shooting at an east lansing synagogue. they found messages saying he was planning to attack the synagogue on the anniversary of another white supremacist mass shooting all of these are distressing in their own right and a sign of the times. what appears to be an unrelated case has emerged in kansas over
the last few days. while this seem to be perhaps of a different caring, it is worth watching here's a photo of people in hazmat suits of a legislator in kansas the hazardous material they're working on, or the suspected hazardous material, was sent to that legislator's home mailing address. about 100 such letters were sent to officials in kansas starting to 48. several of the letters were sent from addresses associated with churches one used the name of a transgender activist who was murdered in 2021 the kansas bureau of investigation and the fbi are all investigating. they stay good news now is that the white powder that was in these letters has tested negative for any commonly used dangerous toxins this was sent to people's home addresses
a worrying situation in kansas watch this space we'll be right back. it was time for a nunormal with nucala. nucala is a once-monthly add-on treatment for severe eosinophilic asthma that can mean less oral steroids. not for sudden breathing problems. allergic reactions can occur. get help right away for swelling of face, mouth, tongue, or trouble breathing. infections that can cause shingles have occurred. don't stop steroids unless told by your doctor. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection. may cause headache, injection site reactions, back pain, and fatigue. ask your asthma specialist about a nunormal with nucala. my a1c was up here; now, it's down with rybelsus®. ask your asthma specialist his a1c? it's down with rybelsus®. my doctor told me rybelsus® lowered a1c better than a leading branded pill and that people taking rybelsus® lost more weight. i got to my a1c goal and lost some weight too. rybelsus® isn't for people with type 1 diabetes. don't take rybelsus® if you or your family ever had medullary thyroid cancer,
or have multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 2, or if allergic to it. stop rybelsus® and get medical help right away if you get a lump or swelling in your neck, severe stomach pain, or an allergic reaction. serious side effects may include pancreatitis. gallbladder problems may occur. tell your provider about vision problems or changes. taking rybelsus® with a sulfonylurea or insulin increases low blood sugar risk. side effects like nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea may lead to dehydration, which may worsen kidney problems. need to get your a1c down? you may pay as little as $10 per prescription. up at 2:00am again? tonight, try pure zzzs all night. unlike other sleep aids, our extended release melatonin helps you sleep longer. and longer. zzzquil pure zzzs all night. fall asleep. stay asleep. lomita feed is 101 years old. when covid hit, we had some challenges. i heard about the payroll tax refund that allowed us to keep the people that have been here taking care of us. learn more at getrefunds.com.
♪ ♪ ♪ [typing] ♪ you were made to act spontaneously. we were made to help plan accordingly. ♪
so, you've got the power of xfinity at home. now take it outside with xfinity mobile. we were made to help plan accordingly. like speed? it's the fastest mobile service around. with the best price for two lines of unlimited. only 30 bucks a line per month. that's hundreds in savings a year when you wave bye to the other guys. no wonder xfinity mobile is one of the fastest growing mobile services. you really shouldn't walk out the front door without it. switch today at xfinitymobile.com.