do what a lot of us. to go into a room by, yourself to yell for a little, bit and come out and be the person that really personifies what we want to know leader in this country. >> i wish more would speak out against him. ken buck, you -- are out of the stove colorado where i have a lot of family. that does it for me, tonight is see us back on sunday at noon and -- stay where you are because therachelmaddowshowstarts right now, hi,rachel. >> hi, jen. thank you very much my. friend i appreciated. things that those at-home for joining, us it's good to have you here. the year was 2015, he was nine years old. interviewer asked him if there were things still on his to do list. things he still wanted to get done during his lifetime that at the age of 90, he had not yet managed to finish. and at this point, he is 90 years old.
but he considers the question and he has this answer really ready. he says, declaratively and simply, yes, there are two things that he intended to get done during his lifetime. two things that were on his to do list that he hasn't quite been able to finish that he would like to finish before he dies. he said, the first one was middle east peace. he had already been given the nobel peace prize in part for his work in pursuit of that goal. middle east peace. but yes, that's still not done. still work to do there. that's one. and then this was the second thing. the second thing still on his to do list that he said he hoped to do before he died. >> in the time you have left, what would you like to see happen? >> completely eradicated before i die.
>> i would like the last guinea worm to die before i do. that was president jimmy carter speaking in 2015. he was 90 years old. president carter is now 99 years old. it turns out he's getting very close to having that wish fulfilled. what's a guinea worm? guinea worms are a thing that humans can get essentially as a parasitic infection. you can have infected water that has the larva of guinea worms in it. i couldshowyou what that means in humans. i'm not going to. i have seen the photos myself in terms of what it mean for human infection and how these worms grow in your body. i have seen these photos. i am haunted by them. i'm not going toshowthem here. trust me, it is vile and very, very memorable. basically you unknowingly drink
water that has the larva of the worms in it. then the worm grow inside your body and the guinea worms don't necessarily kill you but they can make you incredibly debilitatingly sick for months at a time and they're excruciatingly painful. and these things have been around forever. scientists have found their remains in 3,000-year-old mummies. in the old testament, there is a description of fiery serpents attacking the israelites in the desert. some scholars think that what that might have been referring to in the old testament was actually guinea worms. these things, i'm sure they're beloved to each other, right? i'm sure they have friends and moms. but to us humans, they are a plague and they have been causing horrific human pain and misery for thousands of years.
particularly the little kids mpl . in 1986, six years before he was voted out of presidency, former president jimmy carter decided to use his pull and his sway, his remaining power in the world to tray to rid the world of this one particular awful plague. because it was a doable thing. getting rid of this not goody worm thing, it's not a high-tech solution. it's not dependent on some scientific miracle. it just takes focus and where with all and somebody to lead the effort. people, basically, the solution is people have to know how to identify when they have the infection so they don't spread to it others and people need to do simple filtration of their drinking water so they don't invest the larva. for literally thousands of years, we as humans could not get together to do these two basic things.
but jimmy carter decided to try to do it. so you know, basic stuff. doctors and care for people with this disease and education about it and also, little straws that you can drink through to filter your drinking water. that's basically the whole program. when jimmy carter started working on this, there were 3.5 million active cases of guinea worm disease in the world. that means 3.5 million people who were in excruciating, unbelievable pain from infection with this parasite. but he got to work to try to get rid of it. and 32 years into it, when he did that interview at the age of 90, he said he was hoping the last guinea worm in the world would die before he did. well, yesterday jimmy carter turned 99 and it looks like he really might get his wishful as of today, the carter center says that in the first eight months
of this year, from january 1st to august 31st, if you look at the first eight months of this area, combined in total, the number of known cases of guinea world disease anywhere in the entire world is six. not 6 million, not 6,000. six cases. when jimmy carter started this eradication program, there were 3.5 million simultaneous cases in the world. now in total combined all eight months of this year, there are six cases on earth. the only human infectious disease that has ever been eradicated is small pox has the to vaccines as of 1980. we might be about to have the second. right now human kind is on the door stop of eradicating a terrible human infectious disease for only the second time
in the history of earth. it's not strength to a big scientific breakthrough. it's thanks to jimmy carter who turned 99 years old yesterday. earlier this year the last times reported how former president carter would talk about his joy at one visit he made to go see the progress of this program that he was running. he visited a school in rural nigeria and he said some of the school kids came out to greet him with a sign that said, watch out, guinea worm. here comes jimmy carter. former president carter said of all his in his public life, that's the favorite. watch out, skinny worm. here comes jimmy carter! so happy 99th birthday, mr. president. middle east peace may still be a work in progress but this other goal, you might get to cross it off your list.
jimmy carter turning 99 years old yesterday. with jimmy carter and his beginy worm eradication program, we have one model for how a former american president can make the best use of his post presidency years. there are other models, too. and we will talk later on this hour about the remarkable scenes in court today in new york. former president donald trump deciding to be in the courtroom today in new york even though he did not have to be. this today was the civil case brought against trump and his adult sons and top employees of his business and his business itself. it is a civil case in which the new york attorney general has alleged insurance fraud and falsified business records and financial records. the basic allegation from the attorney general in this lawsuit
is that trump's real estate business is built on fraud. it is built on systemic, sustained, deliberate financial fraud. what the attorney general is claiming here, former president trump's lying insistence that he's way richer than he actually is has not just been pitiful but harmless bragging by a sad man. the allegation is that those lies were materially consequential in business terms in a way that new york state is now going to make him pay for. now, when you're a defendant in a criminal case, when you've been criminally charged, you don't have a choice about showing up in court while the case is being tried. you have to be there in a criminal case. this isn't a criminal case. this is a civil case. so donald trump did not have to be there in court today. he chose to be there today nevertheless, which itself tells you something about how important this case is to him.
nobody will get prison time out of a civil case like this. he's facing potential prison time in the four other cases in which he has been criminally indicted but not this one. this is a civil case but it is the one where he very well could lose his whole business and all its properties that he cares about. this one he cares about. today elected to be there at the trial in person. he will apparently be there again tomorrow. he spoke to reporters outside the courtroom. he called the judge in the case the rogue judge. at one point talking about new york attorney general letitia james who brought the lawsuit. he said, quote, you have to go after this attorney general, which felt i'm speaking in layman's terms here, but that felt very much like him crossing the line when it comes to the way he has talked judges and prosecutors and other people involved in the various court proceeding in which he is
implicated. you ought to go after this attorney general? what did he mean by? so we'll talk about that a little later on. we'll talk with someone who was in the courtroom today and try to sort it what we can expect in the days ahead with this case, particularly since it looks likes this one is really agitating the former president and it is one in which he may end up himself on the witness stand testifying under oath. but you know, the news gods move in mysterious ways. this contrast in today's news between the jimmy carter post presidency at his 99th birthday and the trump pose presidency in court today in new york, sort of feel a little like it is here to help. here to help us right now in terms of understanding what is going on in this moment in american politics. particularly with our two major political parties. because as much as i have found it frustrating for years, there
is still even now unbelievably a lot of lazy punditry. a lot of lazy assuming out there in the press that our two major parties in this country are basically the same. that they're mirror images of each other. the actual news from the actual world is here to disprove that. today, congress just narrowly averted a government shutdown this weekend, right? today congress was consumed with drama over whether the farthest right faction in the republican party will be successful in their efforts to oust the republican speaker of the house. why do they want to oust him as speaker of the house? because he had the temerity to work with democrats on a bill that kept the government from shutting down. that's kind of their sum total of their argument against him. i mean, for them, it is
self-evident that grave crime is enough. if house speaker kevin mccarthy will commit the mortal sin of working with the democrats on anything, that obviously, he must lose his job. he can no longer be a republican speaker of the house. and that is what today was consumed with in congress. that's what congress will be about for at least the rest of this week and maybe longer. congressman matt gaetz tonight actually filed his motion to vacate, which means within two legislative days, members of the house will have to take up the future of mccarthy's speakership thanks to gaetz' objection that mccarthy had the temerity to work with democrats. nobody knows whether this will work, what the price if they clues to do that. we don't know how republican there's line up for and against
mccarthy. fox news is reporting that some republicans who like mccarthy might try to expel matt gaetz altogether. that should make for some happy times. bottom line, whether or not republicans succeed in ousting their own speaker of the house, over this narrow miss on a government shutdown, whether or not it ultimately ousts him for the speakership. the message here is clear, right? i mean, in the republican party, if you work with democrats on anything, you are in big trouble as a republican. that is where the republican party is at right now. meanwhile, here's how the democratic candidate is campaigning for election. >> there was a time in america when we expected leaders to put people over politics. when instead of shouting, people from different parties talked
and listened. but for joe biden, compromise isn't a way of the past. it's how he's building manager's future, passing hundreds of bynum laws. a law to rebuild our roads and bridges that puts americans to work, to make america a leader in high-tech manufacturing, bringing good jobs home. laws to improve veterans' health care and strengthen gun safety. every one of those laws, bipartisan. he hasn't gotten everything he wants, but that's not how he measures success. for joe biden, success means lifting everyone in america, no matter where you live or who you voted for. because he is a president for all americans. >> i'm joe biden and i approved this message. >> he hasn't gotten everything he wanted but that's not how he
has success. you may object to that strategy. some of that imagery can be hard to swallow. condoleezza rice and reagan and even john mccain. but that's joe biden. president biden has always been a very collegial guy, with his democratic colleagues and republicans. it is a core part of how he works as a politician and therefore of what people expect from him in politics. yes, he is a liberal, a progressive on almost all policy issues but he will work with everyone. he'll always try to find middle ground. that's joe biden. he's been doing this literally for decades. it's not a surprise that this is how he works and how he is campaigning for re-election. for him to be campaigning for re-election saying, i won't get everything i want, i don't think we're supposed to get everything we want. we're supposed to work it out together. contrast that with what it takes to rise in republican politics right now.
democrats are campaigning for office by saying, i'll compromise and find middle ground. republicans are run out of their party for even thinking about that, let alone doing it. there is no way to both sides this. one of these things is not like the other. the two parties are working on two different projects. and the reasons for that are myriad but here's another piece of it that we are just learning. nbc news has just broken a news story tonight. a very provocative story within the last hour that may give us a little bit of a window into why the two sides, the two major political parties in the united states right now seem like they are coming from two different planets and they are trying to do two totally different things. it may have a little to do with the relationship between the fringe, the extreme and the
middle. the distance between the, you know, not just not governing but really far out there sort of nonrespectable fringe, and the actual fworning part of the story. in 1997, the flagship conservative magazine in the national review went through one of its periodic purges. they realized as they periodically do that they were employing some writers that were publishing some pieces that were just too racist. they have periodically realized this over the history of this magazine. they have to do this when they have ended up publishing people who claimed that white people are naturally more intelligent than everyone else. white people are genetically superior to all other races. they were publishing a guy who said white parents and asian parents should teach their children to avoid black people. they published a guy who said
america was in a genocide of white people because of nonwhite people coming into america. the national review has had to do these purges pertally. the one in 1997 resulted in a new home being founded effectively for people like that who the national review has to fire. in 1999, an organization was set up called vdare. and vdare they say stands for the name virginia dare, who they say was supposedly the first white child born in colonial america. you can see where this is going, right? the founder of vdare, one of the guys, he set it up as an academic hub for people sounding racism. i don't mean that in a vague way. i mean it specifically. the founder of vdare calls himself a racial nationalist. it means in this nation, it should just be the one race.
he said the obama administration was a minority occupation government, meaning it was not an american government but a minority occupation by some foreign entity. he also says, and forgive me for even quoting this, he says that hispanics, quote, specialize in rape. he says the united states is a white nation. so this is stuff off the edge, right? at least it used to be. in 2018, cnn reported that a speech writer in the trump white house had spoken at a white nationalist conference and done a panel with the founder of vdare a few days before election day in 2016. when that news came out on cnn, that speech writer was fired from the trump white house. these guys have to land
somewhere, right? it turns out that guy who went straight from appearing with the vdare guy at the white nationalist event the week of the 2016 election, he went straight from there to a job working in the trump white house as a speech writer there after. when he was fired from even the trump white house, he first briefly landed a new speech writer job with congressman matt gaetz who just tonight has filed this motion to vacate to remove republican speaker of the house kevin mccarthy from his job for the capital crime of working with the democrats to keep the government open. this guy fired from the trump white house briefly lands as a speech writer with matt gaetz. then he lands at a website. a right wing website that among other things push the conspiracy theory that there wasn't really an attack on the u.s. capitol by a trump-supporting mob on january 6th, 2021. that was actually an fbi operation with fbi agents and informants and operators just
pretending to be trump supporters because deep state, flat earth, qanon, whatever. now nbc news reports in the last hour that it is that guy's webb that appears to have published the blue print for right wing billionaire elon musk to buy the social media platform formerly known as twitter, to take it private and then to basically kill it off as a means of helping the far right and hurting the united states of america. the article called it a, quote, declaration of war against the globalist american empire. so that's how things are going on the right. in the democratic party, it's former president jimmy carter in hospice turning 99. he may yet eradicate guinea worm
infection from the face of the earth before he goes as part of his legacy of good works and practical post presidency, decency and leadership. we've got the current democratic president running for re-election by showcasing how much he wants to work with democrats and republicans, and how much it is okay the compromise and not get everything you want as long as you bring people together and he's committed to that. on the right, it's a -- what's the phrase? a declaration of war against the globalist american empire. shaping the media landscape in america. and a former president indicted on 91 felonies and spending his days now strike to sic his supporters on the prosecutors and judges in court. both sides-ism about our two major political parties has really never been more, not in
my lifetime. right now it is not just unwarranted. it is malpractice. one of these things is not at all like the other. ben collins from nbc news joins us next. my customer was enjoying her new car, when her windshield cracked. [gasp] >> customer: my car! >> tech vo: she didn't take it to the dealer. she scheduled with safelite. we have the latest technology for the newest vehicles. and we do more replacements and recalibrations than anyone else. >> customer: thank you so much. >> tech: don't wait-- schedule now. ♪ pop music ♪ >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ tide is busting laundry's biggest myth...
that cold water can't clean. - food fight!! - food fight!! ♪♪ cold water, on those stains? welp, only one way to find out... tide cleans better in cold than the leading bargain detergent in warm. ♪♪ cold water can't clean tough stains? i'd say that myth is- busted! i always wanted to say that! turn to cold, with tide. since my citi custom cash® card automatically adjusts to earn me more cash back in my top eligible category... suddenly life's feeling a little more automatic. like doors opening wherever i go... [sound of airplane overhead] even the ground is moving for me! y'all seeing this? wild!
and i don't even have to activate anything. oooooohhh... automatic sashimi! earn cash back that automatically adjusts to how you spend with the citi custom cash® card. [mind blown explosion noise]
hi, i'm john and i'm from dallas, texas. my wife's name is joy. we've been married 45 years. i'm taking a two-year business course. i've been studying a lot. i've been producing and directing for over 50 years. it's a very detailed thing and the pressure's all on me. i noticed i really wasn't quite as sharp as i was. my boss told me about prevagen and i started taking it. i feel sharper. my memory's a lot better. it just works. prevagen. at stores everywhere without a prescription.
here's why you should switch fo to duckduckgo on all your devie duckduckgo comes with a built-n engine like google, but it's pi and doesn't spy on your searchs and duckduckgo lets you browse like chrome, but it blocks cooi and creepy ads that follow youa from google and other companie. and there's no catch. it's fre. we make money from ads, but they don't follow you aroud join the millions of people taking back their privacy by downloading duckduckgo on all your devices today.   quote, if you have a passion for protecting the integrity of elections and civic events, x is certainly at the center of the conversation. #twitter, #x, #hiring.
this was the head of the election integrity team at twitter a little more than a month ago announcing that the company was hiring eight new people for its election integrity department. lots of important elections coming up around the world including our own next year. this might seem like an excellent time to strengthen the team at twitter that watches out for disinformation and threats related to elections. apparently not though. last week, we learned that the new owner of twitter, right wing billionaire elon musk, just unexpectedly cut half of the election integrity team at the company including the guy had a just a month before said the company was hiring for that department. mr. musk confirmed the firings himself on twitter. since taking control of the company a year ago, mr. musk has not just reinstated accounts that had been banned for harassment or misinformation or inciting violence. he's also taken some weird turns like when he started blaming the
jewish civil rights group, the ant defamation league, for twitter's financial failings. for a social media platform that had become ingrained in daily life and conversation and politics and journalism for millions of people, his tenure there, it hasn't just been, it hasn't just been the loss of a once reliable information platform. it has been that. but it's also sometimes just been weird which is what makes this next story that is just out from nbc news so intriguing. this is new tonight from ben collins of nbc news. he writes, quote, on the day that public records revealed that elon musk had become twitter's biggest shareholder, an unknown sender texted the billionaire and recommended an article imploring him to acquire the social media outright. musk's purchase of twitter, the 3,000-word anonymous article that, would amount to a declaration of war. the sender of the text was
offering the tesla and spacex ceo a play book for the takeover and transformation of twitter as the anniversary of the purchase of the platform approaches, the sender remains unknown. the three texts were send in 2022. and many. decisions made by musk after that have followed that road ma'am up to and including his ongoing attacks against the antidefamation league. a nonprofit group founded by jewish americans to counter discrimination. it was published on a byline run by a far-right blogger and former trump white house speech writer who was fired for speaking on a panel alongside white nationalists. asked by nbc news if he knew who sent the texts to musk and who wrote the article that he sent to him, the former speech writer declined to comment and instead suggested the adl should be investigated.
quote, i think i'm familiar with it but i'm not in a position to comment only, he said. he said i wish i could give you something else but you should look into the adl. joining us now, ben collins, senior reporter for nbc news. thank you for being with us tonight. i'm really intrigued by this new reporting. >> thank you. it's been a long journey with this story. >> tell me about that. first, tell me if i got anything wrong with the way i explained and it tell me about why it's been a long journey. >> it's been a long journey because we've been trying to find out who sent that text message. that text message is even public because twitter tried to sue elon musk to get him to go through the purchase of twitter last year. and elon initially said no. i'm not doing that. part of the discovery process was him revealing a bunch of these texts. most of these texts in that discovery process were publicly known, who sent them. for instance, richard spencer, the white nationalist, his name
is in this tranche of documents. it's a long laundry list including an info wars host in the documents. but for some reason, despite the nine-month fight that we went through, we still cannot figure out who sent this text message. >> and the text message recommended to mr. musk that he look at this article and the article laid out that he should buy twitter. that he should buy twitter and use it as part of a project to destroy the american empire, and it sort of laid out a series of, a, things he should do, but also ways in which people would react once he did those things. kind of laying out the way twitter has collapsed and turned very, very right wing. >> yeah. this blog outlines exactly what would happen the next 18 months. basically he said you should invite back on the far right users.
that might chase away most users from this website that you now own, that you paid for. but it's worth it for the project. by the way, you're going to lose all your advertisers. he says this outright. but then he says, i have a plan for that. you should blame the adl. which to most people would come out of left field in the last few weeks. why is elon musk so angry with the adl? but in this sphere, i would call it the banning sphere. this is where he lives. darren beaty went on after this was published on his blog. he went on tucker carlson's website, sorry, on hisshowwhich no longer insists and basically recited this one to one. so i don't know exactly where elon musk saw. this probably when he texted it. it is clearly a play book that elon musk ran directly parallel to or read from directly himself. >> and the thing about the antidefamation league being the
target hear, this is a jewish rights organization to have these two things line up where you have these recommendations to musk to do all these things that he has done, that would elicit the reaction that has occurred. and then bram a jewish civil rights group. to have that along with people proposing that sort of road map publicly who are associated with white nationalists, and the very, i mean, a ragged far right fringe so distasteful to even the trump white house that they felt the need to fire someone who was espousing these and associating with these people. i mean, that to me feels like fireworks. it feels like an incredibly dangerous thing. >> yeah. if you look back through this, i've talked to a lot of people on the elon musk beat over the last few months. what they want to say to you is that while all this stuff looks like chaos and nonsense and he
doesn't know what he's doing, it's possible this guy had a plan. just because the plan is bad and leads to bad outcomes for almost everybody doesn't mean he didn't have a plan. that's what we saw. can i read you the end of this article? it's fascinating. he said the global empire will never be brought down unless people like elon musk are ready to step up to the plate with the risky and meaningful moves like buying twitter. it will not be easy. it will be war. let the battle begin. that's what was texted him, by the way. at the end there. and then they recommend hiring like a ceo of enforcement which they wound up doing with linda yackarino. one to one. this strategy happened in real-time on twitter. i'm just suggesting, maybe think about this as a plan. it's a bad plan for you and me but it may have been a plan all along. >> ben collins, senior reporter for nbc news. thank you for this reporting. we'll be right back.
liberty mutual customized my car insurance and i saved hundreds. with the money i saved, i started a dog walking business. oh. [dog barks] no it's just a bunny! only pay for what you need. ♪liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty.♪
she runs and plays like a puppy again. his #2s are perfect! he's a brand new dog, all in less than a year. when people switch their dog's food from kibble to the farmer's dog, they often say that it feels like magic. but there's no magic involved. (dog bark) it's simply fresh meat and vegetables, with all the nutrients dogs need— instead of dried pellets. just food made for the health of dogs. delivered in packs portioned for your dog. it's amazing what real food can do.
are you still struggling with your bra? it's time for you to try knix. makers of the world's comfiest wireless bras. for revolutionary support without underwires, and sizes up to a g-cup, find your new favorite bra today at knix.com the virus that causes shingles is sleeping... in 99% of people over 50. it's lying dormant, waiting... and could reactivate. shingles strikes as a painful, blistering rash that can last for weeks.
and it could wake at any time. think you're not at risk for shingles? it's time to wake up. because shingles could wake up in you. if you're over 50, talk to your doctor or pharmacist about shingles prevention. ♪ (upbeat music) ♪ ( ♪♪ ) constant contact's advanced automation lets you send the right message at the right time, every time. ( ♪♪ ) constant contact. helping the small stand tall.
when former president trump arrived at the courthouse this morning for the first day of his new york fraud trial, he came with his standard list of grievances. he stood outside the courtroom and called the case a witch hunt. he called the attorney general a racist for filing suit against him. he said it is all a big conspiracy hatched by the u.s. justice department which has no role whatsoever in this new york
state case. what was telling, perhaps most telling about mr. trump's courthouse rant this morning was the very first thing out of his mouth when he arrived. the very first thing he complained about was the perceived size of his business. he complained that the judge in this case had suggested that trump is worth less money than trump says. trump told reporters season got to court this morning, i'm definitely worth as much as i say i am. in fact, i'm worth way more than that. how dare you denigrate the size of my -- business. the trial that kicked off today in new york, because it is a civil suit, the stakes for trump would appear to be lower than in the four criminal indictments he's facing in various jurisdictions. the civil case cou decimate his business. but the criminal indictments could land him in prison. yet as the "new york times" put it today, trump is treating this civil suit as if it is a fifth indictment. as a civil matter, he wasn't
required to be there in court today but he chose to be there, sitting at a defense table all day long and then criticizing the new york attorney general and criticizing the judge hearing the case when he passed reporters on the way in and out of the courtroom. at one point he did seem to call on other people to join in his attacks on attorney general tish james when he said, quote, you ought to go after this attorney general. seems like a red flag. it's not like there is the first major civil suit that trump has faced. he never showed up in person for the civil case against him from writer e. jean carroll. that was a case where she accused him of sexual assault and rape. the judge found him liable for sexually abusing carroll but trump never bothered toshowup during that trial. he cared enough toshowup today. presumably because this case is about a thing that is famously more important to him than anything else. how big people think his business is. how rich people think he is.
the judge in this case has already determined that trump did fraudulently inflate his assets to make his net worth appear larger than it is. the trial that started today is just to determine what punishments the judge will impose. those could include barring trump from ever again operating a business in new york. joining us now, msnbc legal analyst lisa, i feel like you need a little bit of augmented pay for having suffered through this all day but we're really glad you did and it's good to see you tonight. >> good to see you, too. >> one thing i don't understand. this is a civil case but it is not jut about business entities which could have their business certificates canceled. the entities could be put into receivership or liquidated or somehow forfeited in terms their assets. what does it mean to have individual people, persons identified as defendants in a civil case? what are donald trump, his adult sons, the senior executives from his company personally facing by
being named defendants in this case? >> one of the thing they're personally facing are a number of bans or because on their ability to do business in the state of new york. that would include anything from serving as an officer or director in the case of the current cfo and the controller, being able to control companies. the other thing that donald trump himself could face here is disgorgement which is a fancy way of saying, clawing back all the profits that he and his business entities got through this persistent fraud that the attorney general has laid out through her 200-plus page complaint last fall and intends to further prove here at trial. >> that's money they would take from the assets of the business entities involved? or something the individual people named as defendants would be personally responsible for? >> it's not clear to me that all the individual defendants are people from whom they could seek disgorgement. the short answer is yes. they could seek it from donald
trump himself and the business entities. indeed, one of the reasons donald trump fears the disillusion of his company through the action is that it's not clear how liquid he is and how much money he has in cash to satisfy the judgment that the attorney general is seeking here of at least $250 million. >> they said there was a lot of discussion today. i think it started mostly by president trump's lawyer and then also trump himself commenting on the same matter about the fact that this case is being heard not before a jury but before just the judge. and there was at love discussion about that today. essentially saying that trump and his legal team made a police take. if they had in fact wanted a jury, which is what trump was complaining about today, if they could have very easily gotten a jury instead of ending up just before a judge if they had only sent in the correct form. a lot of people were dunking on them saying, they screwed that up as a matter of basic
paperwork. i gather from talking to you about this today a little bit that it isn't quite that simple. could you explain how you see that as having gone? >> yeah. they didn't. they're right to i is a they didn't request a jury trial and neither for that matter did the attorney general. but had they requested a jury trial, it's not clear that they could have gotten one because the relief that the attorney general is seeking here isn't the kind of relief that a injure can award. it's what is called equitable relief. all of these bans and bars on the trumps doing business in new york as well as the disgorgement, the clawing back of profits rather than the awarding of damages, that's only for a judge to award. they could have tried and maybe the judge would have bifurcated the trial, allowing them a jury on liability and then just to him alone on the equitable portion. with you as everyone noted today, they didn't try. and if you don't ask, you don't get. >> msnbc legal analyst lisa rubin. i know this will be a bear as it
stretches out into a two or three-month trial schedule. appreciate you being there for us. >> thanks. >> we'll be right back. stay with us. what causes a curve down there? is it peyronie's disease? will it get worse? how common is it? who can i talk to? can this be treated? stop typing. start talking to a specialized urologist. because it could be peyronie's disease, or pd. it's a medical condition where there is a curve in the erection, caused by a formation of scar tissue. and an estimated 1 in 10 men may have it. but pd can be treated even without surgery. say goodbye to searching online. find a specialized urologist who can diagnose pd and build a treatment plan with you. visit makeapdplan.com today.



if you're keeping a calendar of important political dates for next year around the election and everything, you might have to pencil one in in early may. may 6th is the day the federal judge has just set for the corruption trial of new jersey democratic senator bob mend
menendez. prosecutors said they think the trial will take four to six weeks. that's notable because if it starts may 6th, well, four weeks after that is the new jersey democratic primary election. in which senator menendez is saying for now he will be a candidate for re-election to the united states senate. really? yeah. he insists he's not going anywhere. this is turning into a bizarre situation. it has been ten days since federal prosecutors released their sweeping corruption indictment against senator menendez. with each day since that indictment, we've seen more and more calls for senator menendez to resign. over the week it was tom karmer who became the latest democrat to call for his senate colleague to step down. that brings the total number of senators calling for bob menendez' resignation to 31. 31 senators calling on him to resign. all 31 of them are democrats. members of the bob menendez' own
party or senators who caucus with the democrats. not a single republican senator has called on menendez to resign. see, it's a very special kind of awkward for republicans to make a big deal about a politician being unindictment. democrats are willing to say goodbye to even give a shove to their own guy because of this corruption indictment. but republicans find themselves in the situation where they feel like they can't say anything. another gift of the trump era in republican politics to the self-esteem and dignity of today's republican elected officials. senator bob menendez has so far resisted all calls that she resign saying he intends to stay in the senate. just last week, there was a poll from the group vote veterans which found, this is public policy polling, they found that the percentage of new jersey voters who say they have a favorable opinion of bob menendez right now is 8%.
not 80. not even 18. 8% approval rating among his own constituents. the same poll found the percentage of voters who have an unfavorable view of bob menendez is 74%. but again, not a single republican in the senate is calling for menendez to resign. i should note that vote vets has endorsed a possible replacement for menendez. they've endorsed andy kim and his effort to primary menendez out of his seat. but still, 8% is an astoundingly low approval rating for a sitting senator, let alone one up for re-election next year. it looks like senator menendez may be in the middle of his federal corruption trial as voters get to decide if he stays in office. these are the wrong muscles for us to be developing as a country but needs must. watch this space. but needs must watch this space smart now... i'm 65. and really smart later i'm 70-ish.
consider an aarp medicare supplement insurance plan from unitedhealthcare. with this type of plan, you'll know upfront about how much your care costs. which makes planning your financial future easier. so call unitedhealthcare today to learn more about the only plans of their kind with the aarp name. and set yourself and your future self up with an aarp medicare supplement plan from unitedhealthcare.
every day, more dog people are deciding it's time for a fresh approach to pet food. developed with vets. made from real meat and veggies. portioned for your dog. and delivered right to your door. it's smarter, healthier pet food.
( ♪♪ ) we're in the security business... our job is to help people feel safe. not only our customers but those who matter most to them. just like our company does for us. we have great benefits from principal. so i know i'm taken care of. and (pause) not just me. but the ones who matter most to me. ( ♪♪ )
one last quick note before
we go tonight. this is something i said i would keep you updated on so here's your update. i have this new book coming out in a couple weeks. it is called prequel. an american fight a fascism. i'm very excited about this. mention that had i'll do a little bit of a book tour in case you want see me in person. a bunch of stops othe book tour sold out very quickly which was very shocking me. that's great buzz it's frustrating to a lot of people who wanted to comeout. so we added another date. this was just added. a new date just added. i'll be in phoenix, arizona, on october 25th. so that's just been