president, it doesn't have the power of the purse, it doesn't have the power of the sort. the only thing that makes us obey the court and heat its decisions is our sense that the court is doing the right thing, the court is a legitimate institution. once the public stops thinking of the court in that way, there is really no reason to abide by its decisions. the court's legitimacy is absolutely everything. >> melissa murray, always a pleasure to talk to you. thank you so much. greatly appreciate your insights. that is all in on this monday night. i will be back on saturday, 8 pm eastern, sundays at 9 pm eastern right here on msnbc. therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. good evening,rachel. the white house correspondents' dinner.e i've never seen anybody wring more news out of that event an you did. it was fantastic. >> i've got w to say i've had t privilege of going to these things, but it was different
being able to watch and observe outside the room against the backdrop of everything that is happening in this country and against the comedians roast the elites so to speak. >> exactly. well, you did fantastic. my whole family watched. >> thank you. >> and thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. happy mayday to those who celebrate and hopefully we all do. this i'm sorry to say was columbus, ohio, this weekend. gentlemen very bravely wearing ski masks with sunglasses over the eye holes along with matching coordinated outfits that made them like assistant managers at a tire store. these gentlemen are part of a neo-nazi group. i don't say that as a general matter or something i'm surmising from their look. they're not being subtle about it. they are in fact flying a
gigantic swastika flag. again, this was saturday, this weekend 2023 in columbus, ohio. and i want to be able to say it is nothing particular to ohio. certainly we have seen these kind of displays in other states recently, but if this is ringing a t bell this footage from columbus at all, if this is ringing a bell for you it may be because this footage here was from just a few weeks ago, from march in wadsworth, ohio, just outside akron. we covered this on theshowjust a few weeks ago when greater at akron, had you, had their own bigha nazi outbreak. again, this was just a few weeks ago in march of this year. and last week in ohio where we got the announcement of federal charges for another neo-nazi charged withot trying to burn dn a church just outside cleveland, ohio. molotov cocktails thrown in an
arson attack on a church. it started in one itchy spot in ohio, but now it's clear it's not a bug bite but a rash, and it's oozing and spreading all over and it's disgusting. but it really doesn't help to pretend you can't see it, ohio. it isn't hard to follow the plot here what these guys are doing. in each of these instances these nazi groups are turning out in ohio and the purported motive of attempted arson at the ohio church. it's all for the sane reason, te harass and intimidate trans team and queer people. the guys in the red suits and squats cuflag, that was outside a drag brunch being held outside a local columbus business, a drag brunch to by a non-profit
center. also the church arson just outside cleveland that was targeting a church with a family friendly drag event. see it's all in one idea because the nazis in america aren't nazis in america these day. they have their cause. and they're doing this stuff in part for the same reason they're doing it in florida all the time now and other states. first it's try to intimidate and freak people out but also to try to desensitive us to swastikas and nazi imagery of all kinds and the presence of nazis on our screen corners and in our public protests, so we expect it, i guess, so we're not so shocked about it as much as we might otherwise be. if you are not down with that though, if you are not excited by the little nazis blooming like stink weed everywhere these days, it mightev give you some pause. the reason these nazis keep turning out, the reason these nazis are on the streets and
public parks, the reason they keep doing this stuff is that they're cheering on what you've been doing in your day job. that might give you pause, right, if you started to notice what they were doing is pulling for your side. in ohio, for example, it might give you pause if you were an ohio republican and you've been working on legislation to attack queer people and trans people while at the same time repeatedly these guys are theti crowds to bolster that message, to make sure the harassment and intimidation has not just the camaraderie of state law but nazi flair. it is not giving ohio republican because. just in the last few days they've been happy to hold hearings onap their new propose
legislation to make the street very happy by further targeting trans people in ohio. the cleveland scene newspaper covering these legislative hearings had to find the right sober language a few days ago to capture testimony that ohio republicans justst got in suppo of their bill. testimony in support of their anti-trans bill from a pastor who got up in the legislature and assured everyone that the, quote, demons of the underworld were possessing the bodies of people opposed to the anti-trans bill. a democratic state legislator from los angeles sought to clarify, the pastor affirmed that, ques, he did mean that any state legislator even who's jewish or muslim or hindu or anything else is according to him an expert he says -- according to him such a legislator is possessed by
demons, and that's why the anti-trans bill is so important to him because of all the demonic possession particularly among non-christians who are serving in the legislature. with that matter settled the republicans moved onto try to get that bill passed to again further target trans people who live in their state. in florida republican legislatures there are now issuing subpoenas to medical groups to the florida psychiatric society and the american academy of pediatrics to harass those medical associations because they oppose the florida legislation targeting trans people in that state. in montana theop republican governor there just signed another bill going after trans people making montana the 12th or 13th state to do so in just the past few months. the republican governor signed the bill in his state after his own nonbinary son begged him not
to and after republicans in the state legislature voted to expel from the house floor the one transgender lawmaker in the legislature. she's as of now suing them to be reinstated. that's montana. in missouri that state's new anti-trans law was just tonight blocked byus a missouri judge w ruled that a temporary restraining order is warranted against that law for at least a couple more weeks. the upjudge's ruling tonight in missouri says missouri republicans implementing their new anti-trans law would subject trans missourians to quote, immediate irreparable, loss, damage, or injury. that mez court blocking the republican anti- translaw in that state, that of course follows the federal department of justice bringing a new federal lawsuit against the new anti-trans law in tennessee. that was filed last wednesday,
just last week at the department ofek justice. then there's the blue states, the democratic led states trying tocr head this stuff off in the own way, in a different way. they're at least trying to provide people some safety, someplace to hide from these kinds of laws that republicans in their uniformed ski mask cheerleaders are now pursuing everywhere they have power. we saw it happen in minnesota a few days ago. the democratic governor there tim walls signing legislation to provide legal protection to people from other states, families and individuals fromga other states who need help, people who have to leave the state where they live in order to get gender affirming health care or to get an abortion. so if your home state now bans the kind of health care you need as a transgender person or if yourso home state now bans abortion. if your state is onens of these republican led states that's now threatening to bring prosecutions againstto you or against your doctorio for seeki this kind of care, minnesota law
officially now says we will provide you refuge. you can come here, you will be safe here. this is the headline in the lead minnesota star tribune. quote, minneapolis star tribune -- quote, new laws make minnesota a refuge for abortion and gender affirming care. people traveling to minnesota for abortion or gender affirming care will now be shielded from legal consequences under a new law signed by the democratic governor. minnesota is among the latest but they're certainly not alone. thece democratic governor in colorado and democratic governor of new mexico recently signed similar shield laws to protect people who were fleeing republican states, to protect doctors who republican states are threatening to come after even in states where abortion is legal. and then there's washington state in the pacific northwest. you might remember a few weeks
ago weu covered a new law pass by republicans in idaho. and in idaho the republicans there are not only banning abortion in their state. that's thought going far enough for them. idaho republicans have taken it a step further. they passed a law that would try to ban idaho residents from leaving idaho to get an abortion somewhere else. this means idaho republicans are explicitly threatening to bring prosecutions against doctors in other states for providing abortions to idaho residents while they're not in idaho. it's like your state's politics stain you personally and you're neverai allowed to wash it off. the idaho ban threatens their own states residents, threatens idaho residents for leaving the state. itle threatens anybody helping idaho resident leave the state, and it threatens doctors in other states where abortion is still legal, just an incredible thing that idaho republicans are
trying to do. but i was struck at the time we first covered this a few weeks ago. i was struck by the personal put my name on it intervention from the democratic governor of a state that borders idaho whereby washington state's democratic governor jay inslee. while idaho was considering that bill which they've now passed, governor inslee wrote to his republicanto counterpart, wrote directly to the republican governor in idaho, he wrote him a letter man-to-man, governor to governor telling him don't do it. dear governor little, i write this letter to urge your veto of this idaho ban on people leavine the state of idaho to get an abortion. governor inslee explained his objections to the bill. he warned the idaho governor that this legislation would contribute further to what he described as already an exodus of health care professionals from idaho. but then he said this.
he said, quote, regardless of your decision on this bill, we welcome idaho's patients and health care providers with open arms ins washington. we will care for your residents in a manner consistent with our health care needs as determined byas trained medical professionals, not politicians. but make no mistake, governor little, the laws of another state that seek to punish anyone in washington for lawful acs taken in washington will not stand. he says, quote, we will protect our providers, and we will harbor and comfort your residents who seek health care services that are denied to them in idaho. we will harbor and comfort your residents who have to flee your state to come here to get health care that you have criminalized. he signed his name to it. and idaho has since signed that legislation, but washington has agency, too. and since then washington
governor jay inslee, a democrat, has signed the legislation that blocks law enforcement officials in washington state from aiding any other state's abortion-related legal investigation. it blocks police in courts in washington from assisting other states investigations going after trans people. he signed legislation to protect washington doctors from professional disciplinary action if they provide care that is in violation of some other state's law. he signed legislation that says in washington the data from cellphone apps that track your period, that data can't be shared without you okaying it. soyi they cannot use that data. they cannot use those apps as evidence in any prosecution related to abortion. governor inslee has also bought a stockpile of abortion pills for washington. ee signed legislation to ensure that medication abortions stay legal and available in washington even as republicans try to ban them in every state in the country.
and, you know, there's always a tale of two cities that you can tell in this country. i've always been interested in state policy, state politics, the waycy things shape up, and e way you can see the states not just as sort of laboratories of democracy, but you can see the states where they are trying out things that each of the parties wants for the whole country. and so there's always been a tale you can tell about what republican controlledl states e doing versus what they're doing in the blue states. and i think i find it probably more interesting than most. i've always been intrigued by these stories. but, you know, as much as you can see ipdifferent states between red states and blue states, a different in priorities, a difference in outcomes,, sometimes a notable difference in seriousness of purpose in lawmakers in those two different kinds of states, for all of that, for all those trends i've followed for years, this is oneen of the few times can remember when democratic states like jay inslee's washington state are passing not just legislation that's
different than what they're doing in a republican state, not just passing legislation that makes blue states distinct from republican states in terms of policy and likely outcomes. this is the first time that i can rememberrs when democratic controlled states feel the need to pass wraths of legislation basically just to protect themselves from red states and what they're doing over there. governor inslee also just signed gun policy reform, an assault weapons ban. this legislation he signed just last week bans the manufacturing, importation, distribution, sale, or offering for sale of an, assault weapon. it specifically named guns like ar-15s and ak-47s. he also signed new legislation that says ifsi you do want to b a gun in washington state you're going to need to go through gun safety training and also there's ag ten-day waiting period. this man is getting stuff done in washington. he's also leaving office. washington governor jay inslee
is the nation's longest serving -- currently serving governor. he's been governor of washington since he was first elected to that job in 2012. he's been there for a solid decade. he's now in his third term as governor of washington, given how he galloped to a landslide win in his last race, he was basically considered a shoe in if he wanted to run for an unprecedented fourth term in washington. but that's not what he wants. today governor jay inslee of washington announced that in his words it's time to pass the torch. joining us now is governor jay inslee of washington state. governor, nice to see you. thanks for being here on such a big day. >> thanks for having me. >> why did you decide not to run again? >> it's either the bird song or the good book, to everything there's a season and this is thd moment for change. i first term for a new governor instead of a fourth term with me was the right decision for the
state. i've had ande extremely effecti run. our state has been so successful the last ten years. we've developed the best climate policies in the country, the best paidun family leave. as you've indicated we've been doing as well as possible protecting women's right of choice and taking action against gun violence. so we have set the stage for the next great chapter of wash's history in spades and this was the moment. i'll find a way to be active. it's not retirement. i'll still be fighting the climate battle in some context, so it is it right moment. >> let me ask you about the gun reforms you just signed. one of the things i was reminded of when i looking over your cv and public biography today is youio did two different stints congress, you were very good at getting elected in congress but there was this split in between because you got elected in 1992 and 1994, which was a big
republican year. you got voted out after you had voted for the federal assault weapons ban. and a lot of people have attributed that loss in the congressional race you lost to your ban on guns. it's interesting given the assault weapons ban you signed in washington state this week. i wonder if you can reflect on that passage of time and what it's taken in terms of political bravery on that issue. >> i did vote for it. it was like the 217th vote, so i did have some measure getting it passed. that bill was effective. it reduced mass murders during the ten years it was on the books. i've never regretted that vote. it did play a role in my removal from congress, but i never regretted it because i always figure no child's life was less important than somebody's office. so i never regretted it, so there is a certain beauty if you can call it that to now as a
governor being able to enforce this in our state. so i feel if not personally vindicated, i'm glad we finally got it done, i'm sorry it took so long. i do want to note, too, something we passed two other bills just as important. we passedju a bill that will require safetybi training befor you can get a gun and a ten-day waiting period. that bill has been shown to be very effective. we also passed a bill that will hold manufacturers liable if they actuf inappropriately. so, yes, i'm glad my state is moving on gun violence. the tragedies we're seeing is unacceptable. inaction is unacceptable. we've taken action in washington state and we're going to continue to do so. >> you'veue been not only a lear in washington but a leader in the country on climate policy, as you said among your accomplishments and other things you're able to brag on in terms of your time as governor some of the mostrn aggressive climate policies in the country if not the most aggressive climate policies.
you also ran for president largely on a climate change platform and doing the right thingng nationally on climate change. i wonder if you have a message for your fellow democrats and a message for the country about political bravery around climate issues. i'm struck right now by the fact the trexry secretary janet yellen today said we're going to hit the debt ceiling by potentially june 1st, which mean there's got to be action on the debt ceiling to raise the debt ceiling right away in order to avoid catastrophic default on our debts. right now the republican legislation to raise the debt ceiling also winds back all the climate policy that president biden has been able to enact in his first two years in office. i wonder your reflections on that. >> well, first off i'm very happy that we have a president and democratic majorities that are not going to go backwards on climate change. that is unacceptable for the future of our planet and our children and grandchildren.
so that is not going to happen. let me just tell you if i can what i think the central tenant when we talk about climate right now, and that is i think we have to bolster our confidence and our optimism to develop a national belief that we can do this, that we can develop a clean energy economy. and that is i believe the central important message. yes, we have to talk about the glaciers melting and the forest fires, and the tornados and the floods. but maybe justd as important w need to bolster america's belief we can get this job done, which we can do. today i was in everett, washington, where we rolled out the largest commercial fuel celled plane ever developed in history. last week i was where we have the first -- battery in production. the technical change is allowing us to tame this beast. and i think that message of
confidence is one that will see us throughe this republican effort to go backwards, it will not succeed and we'll continue to move this nation forward. i'm actually very confident about that. i can't turn over a rockin' my state without finding people who have great jobs as a result of this clean energy revolution. so let's march forward with confidence. let's not listen to the republicans nayen saying and fe based -- you know, they're just fear based. they're afraid we can't do this, and they're just wrong. they don't have confidence in the american people. we're the party of confidence right now, and that's going to win the day here. i really believe that. >> governor jay inslee of washington state. again, sir, i know it's a really big day. thank you for being with us here tonight. >> thank you,rachel. spread the gospel. >> i will, too. much more ahead tonight. stay with us. too much more ahead tonight. stay with us


we moved out of the city so our little sophie could appreciate nature. but then he got us t-mobile home internet. i was just trying to improve our signal, so some of the trees had to go. i might've taken it a step too far. (chainsaw revs) (tree crashes)
(chainsaw continues) (daughter screams) let's pretend for a second that you didn't let down your entire family. what would that reality look like? well i guess i would've gotten us xfinity... and we'd have a better view. do you need mulch? what, we have a ton of mulch.
believe it or not, we are coming up on the 15th anniversary of the start of this program. very hard to believe, but there it is. when you've win on the air for 15 years, though, there are some stories i have to tell you that come up again and again in some version, some iteration, stories you get used to covering repeatedly or at least you get used to the type of story that it is. a lot of election stories are like that, campaign stories, even some political scandals seem to follow like a mad libs kind of script. public official "x" is famous for making political hay out of thing. secretly politician it doing
opposite of thing. there's a mad libs quality to a lot of scandals, right? usually politician "x" is usually lying about the thing and lying if there's something sketchy about it related to money as well. you get used to way these things are. there are stories, there are types of stories that recur, i will admit, a familiar cadence. but then there are stories you think really are one of a kind, stories that you think, you hope you have closed the book on and you never have to think of them again. won't need to drag that one of out of the archives, there'll never be another thing like it. in this case, boy, i hope it was a story true. back in 2009 when thisshowhad barely been on the air for a year we had reportedly on thisshowon a trip taken by a bunch
of american anti-gay act vs who went to the nation of uganda. it was a group of very well-connected american anti-gay conservative evangelical activists who traveled to africa, traveled to uganda for a big anti-gay conference that year. and while they were at that conference they spoke to a group that included legislators while frugonda. and the visiting americans told these ugandan legislators that in their national laws in uganda they should have zero-tolerance for homosexuality. these visiting americans flew in and told the ugandan parliamentarians that gay people were moralless, gay people were predators on a mission to corrupt ugandan society and family values and they had to be stopped. the americans also told these
lawmakers, these leaders and legislators they told them as american experts on this subject they were able to confirm the scientific truth they were there to attest to, which is that gay people can become straight if they want to, there is a cure for homosexuality. the implication being if you're gay that means you don't want to avail yourself of the available cure so really you have only yourself to blame. that is the message these american right-wing activists brought to uganda to advise them on legislation, portraying themselves as experts in the field. >> they say gays are born that way and it's been proven. that is a lie. that's what's called a lie. it is not true. >> american activist telling ugandan legislators what he knows is the truth about homosexuality. that guy's claim to fame is a
book called the "the wink squats cu"which claims it's not the nazis but the gays who are responsible for the holocaust. those american anti-gay conservative activists presented themselves as experts on sexual orientation particularly experts on the science of sexual orientation, and their american anti-gay propaganda export operation worked in uganda or at least it helped. legislators in uganda including some who attended the anti-gay conference with these experts who flew in from america, they began pushing new and extreme punishments for being gay in their country. and that is how the ugandan government came to draft what became known internationally as the kill the gays bill. it came to be called that because that's exactly what it aimed to do. it prescribed death by hanging for the crime of homosexuality. there was was such an intense international backlash to that
proposed law that these american activists who got over there and promoted exactly that sort of thing, they tried to distance themselves from what they had done. they said they were shocked by the drastic nature of the kill the gays bill that was ultimately introduced in the ugandan parliament. but ugandans we talk about it at the time as part of our reporting for theshowconfirmed to us in fact those american activists had inspired the law with their bonkers pseudo science and american expertise. the way the coverage of that story ended is that the wave of international condemnation for the kill the gays bill was so overwhelming even though the ugandan government was in favor of it they ended up -- but these americans who push back, these american anti-guy conservative
activists for all the damage they managed to do in uganda, here at home they really were the fringe of the fringe. homosexuals are on a mission to steal your children and undermine society so we ought to make being gay illegal. that was way out there in the 2009 even for far right politicians who were supportive of anti-gay evangelical groups. that was crazy sounding in 2009 in american domestic politics. boy, what a difference 14 years makes because now that same message that gay people are out to get you, gay people, and trans queens are on a mission to steal your society and we need to make it all illegal today that's kind of the republican platform. in 2023 republicans can agree on nothing else, but they can agree on that. what was fringe in the republican party in 2009 is now mainstream republican politics in 2023. and when our domestic far right is even more unleagued like that
here at home, guess what the implications are for that? the kill the gays law is back, and it is more insane now. and yes, right-wing americans are helping with it again. we have a very much lamented update on that story here live next. h lamented update on that story here live next


and this is ready to go online. any questions? -yeah, i got one. how about the best network imaginable? let's invent that. that's what we do here. quick survey. who wants the internet to work,
pretty much everywhere. and it needs to smooth, like super, super, super, super smooth. hey, should you be drinking that? -it's decaf. because we're busy women. we don't have time for lag or buffering. who doesn't want internet that helps a.i. do your homework even faster. come again. -sorry, what was that? introducing the next generation 10g network only from xfinity. the future starts now.   last year republicans in arizona lined up behind a bill
that would have punished teachers and opened them up to lawsuits. the idea was this. if a student was, for example, scared to tell his or her family that they were gay or transgender or thinking about those issues the student decided instead to talk totheir teacher about it, well, this arizona law would create an affirmative legal obligation for the teacher, forcing the teacher to call the student's parent and tell them. and if the teacher didn't do it, arizona republicans said that teacher should lose his or her liesance and it should be okay for the teacher it be sued as an individual. during that same session republicans also pushed legislation that would have banned books like maya angelou's book "i know why the caged bird sings" or george orwell's "1984" or the great gatsby. critics say because of the way that bill was originally crafted it would have made it illegal to
teach anything at all about homeysexuality. you could not say it exists. what those two bills had in common was that to create those bills republicans in arizona consulted with the same far-right interest group. it's based in arizona. but while that group is based in arizona they really only dabble in this stuff in the united states. where they really do most of their work is overseas. this is right-wing anti-gay group in america in arizona that for years has backed anti-gay legislation in countries like nigeria where same-sex relations with punishable by death depending on what part of the country you're in. along the way this arizona group has also forged close ties with a veerulateitantly anti-gay activists who were enthusiastic supporters in parliament of uganda's previous kill the gays bill. in march of this year just weeks ago this arizona group was one
of the key organizers of a conference in uganda that hosted lawmakers, hosted elected officials from more than a dozen countries in africa at this conference, again, organized by an arizona conservative group lawmakers from more than a dozen countries gathered in uganda and promised that in their home countries they would push legislation against the sin of homosexuality. here's the head of family watch international meeting with her long time friend the first lady of uganda at that conference. the first lady said during that most recent meeting they discussed in her words concern about the imposition of harmful practices like homosexuality. american activists taking that message abroad. well, now, family watch international's efforts appear to be paying off. just a few weeks ago the parliament in uganda passed what amounts to a new kill the gays bill that would impose the death penalty for certain offenses. it calls for life in prison for
anybody who has gay sex. it makes it illegal to advocate for the rights of lgbtq people. advocacy would carry up to 20 years in prison as its penalty. the white house has already come out hard against this legislation. >> before i turn it over to my colleague here i want to say one thing at the top, we have grave concerns with the passage of the anti-homosexuality act, aha, by the parliament of uganda yesterday and the creasing violence targeting lgbtqi plus persons. the bill is one of the most extreme anti-lgbtqi plus laws in the world. human rights are universal. no one should be attacked, imprisoned, or killed simply because of who they are or whom they love. >> strong criticism from the white house by the biden administration for this proposed new kill the gays law in uganda. the status of it right now is that it's been sent back to the
parliament in uganda for, quote, strengthening. apparently the president of uganda wanted a provision added regarding so-called conversion therapy to cure people of being gay. but as far as we know this thing could be reintroduced as soon as tomorrow. our next guest who's joining us live from uganda is one of the most accomplished, most respected lgbtq rights activists in that whole part of the world. he told us today the parliament in his country has issued notice he's going to reconsider this bill during tomorrow's session. he said members of parliament have confirmed tomorrow may be the day. what's interesting in this country is, yes, the biden administration have spoken out on this bill, but if they're going to stop this the time is now, the time is right now as in tonight. joining us now from ugaunlda's capital city is the executive director of sexual minorities
uganda. i really appreciate you being here. i know it's a dangerous time for you to be speaking out, and i also know it's the middle of the night, but where you are i really appreciate you being here, sir. >> thank you so much for having me, and thank you so much for amplifying our voice now and back then when the kill the gays bill was just introduced. we need that and our voices to be amplified not only in uganda but also other parts of africa where this kind of legislation is being introduced. thank you for having me. >> of course. as you mentioned we covered the initial iteration of this bill in 2009 when that went through a long process and was eventually shell. can you tell us about the difference? is this essentially a continuation of that same idea is this worse in some ways? is it similar legislation? >> this legislation is very, very draconian and extreme.
this legislation and i've said it many times it is here to erase the entire existence of an lgbtq person in uganda but also it recognizes ugandans into hatred of the lgbtq community. and we're already seeing that happening. this could lead to injustice, and people getting disowned by their own families because it reports any person who is an lgbtq person to the authorities. so this bill is more extreme than the one that was introduced in 2009. >> compelling other citizens to report fellow citizens, fellow ugandans who they believe to be gay, tell me -- we have seen some coverage in the united states including i've seen some important reporting in "the new york times" about lgbtq ugandans
fleeing the country and going to kenya and other places basically trying to avoid the mob justice, the kind of vigilante violence you're describing. what does this law mean if it passes for people who are out, for activists like yourself? >> if this is passed we'll definitely see many more get arrested. we'll see many lgbtq persons leave the country. so many of the lgbtq neighbors are already fleeing the country, they're trying to go to neighboring kenya, which is not safe as well. but they feel they will be safer in kenya than be imprisoned in uganda. and we're already seeing ugandans like i say radicalalized, hating on lgbtq persons. we're seeing violence. we're seeing many cases of violence, social exclusion, people getting beaten. we're seeing that increase. if this bill is passed or signed by the president we'll definitely see many of the lgbtq
members leave the country. we'll see many get arrested. people like myself who are outspoken, i could end up getting arrested, and many of my colleagues who are outspoken as well could end up being in prison. >> i have to ask you if it made a difference for the obama administration, for the u.s. government to speak out against this proposed legislation when we saw an early iteration of this years ago, and in your opinion would it make a major difference if the biden administration, if american politicians of all stripes took a firmer stand on this, took a louder stand on this and put pressure on your country's government to not do it, would it make a difference if america stood up? >> it would make a big difference if americans spoke directly to the authorities and how dangerous this legislation is for the lgbtq community here and how this legislation is going to make the lgbtq community unsafe living here in
ugaunlda. and that legislation is a gross violation. >> taking a big risk to talk to us live tonight. sir, good luck in your work. thank you, and be safe. >> thank you so much. >> thank you. we'll be right back. stay with us. you we'll be right back. stay with us on top of the worlddddd!!! before advil. advil targets pain at the source of inflammation. when pain comes for you, come back fast with advil liqui-gels.



so first it was the texas billionaire guy flying supreme court justice clarence thomas
around on lavish international all expense paid vacations, which justice thomas didn't disclose to the court. then it was propublica reporting that same billionaire also bought the house where justice thomas' mother lived, fixed up the whole place for her even after he paid top dollar for it, very kind. and then it was politico reporting justice neil gorsuch stumble into a nice wind fall. he'd been trying for years to sell a piece of property in colorado. and nine days after he was appointed to the supreme court a major law firm with lots of business with the court decided out of the blue to buy that property and thereby pay the supreme court a whole lot of money. and just days later we got a story from insider about the wife of chief justice john roberts working in a multi-million dollar gig as a recruiter for law firms who regularly appear in the supreme court. which means if you're about to have a case in the supreme court
here's a handy way to put a lot of money in the pocket of the chief justice via his wife. tomorrow senate democrats are set to hold their first hearing on ethics and conflicts of interest at the united states supreme court. yeah, maybe it's time for that. they requested that chief justice john roberts appear and testify about the court's ethics rules. he declined the invitation to testify. the committee then sent him a series of questions about how the court enforces its own ethics policies. they sent this question, quote, has there ever been any centur, reprimand, sanction, or penalty imposed on any justice for failure to abide by the court's ethic policy? if so what type of penalties have been or may be imposed? good question, has anyone on the court ever gotten in trouble for breaking the rules the chief justice says y'all follow? today justice roberts sent his answer. no, nobody's ever gotten in trouble as far as he knows.
hee says, quote, i'm not aware of any penalties imposed on chief justices for failures to abide by the practices or principles. so, no, no one's gotten in trouble for breaking the supreme court ethics rules. they're very, very strict ethics rules totally working to avoid scandal and appearance of conflict of interest. everything is working great, no conflicts at all. the hearing on the court is set for 10:00 a.m. eastern time tomorrow with or without the chief justice there. watch this space. e there. watch this space our neck? it's good to go. before advil. advil dual action fights pain two ways. advil targets pain at the source, acetaminophen blocks pain signals. advil dual action. there is a better way to manage diabetes. the dexcom g7 continuous glucose monitoring system acetaminophen blocks pain signals. eliminates painful fingersticks, helps lower a1c, and is covered by medicare. before using the dexcom g7, i was really frustrated. all of that finger-pricking and all that pain,
my a1c was still stuck. before dexcom g7, i couldn't enjoy a single meal. i was always trying to outguess my glucose, and it was awful. before dexcom g7, my diabetes was out of control because i was tired. not having the energy to do the things that i wanted to do. (female announcer) dexcom g7 is a small, easy-to-use wearable that sends your glucose numbers to your phone or dexcom receiver without painful fingersticks. the arrow shows the direction your glucose is heading-- up, down, or steady. and because dexcom g7 is the most accurate cgm, you can make better decisions about food, medication, and activity in the moment. it can even alert you before you go too low or when you're high. oh, the fun is absolutely back. after dexcom g7, i can on the spot figure out what i'm gonna eat and how it's gonna affect my glucose. when a friend calls and says, "hey, let's go to breakfast," -i can get excited again. -after using the dexcom g7, my diabetes, it doesn't slow me down at all.
i lead line dancing three times a week, i exercise, and i'm just living a great life now. it's so easy to use. it has given me confidence and control that everything i need is right there on my phone. (earl) the dexcom g7 is so small, it's so easy to use, and it's very discreet. (dr. king) if you have diabetes, getting on dexcom is the single most important thing you can do. (david) within months, my a1c went down to 6.9. (donna) at my last checkup, my a1c was 5.9. (female announcer) now, millions more are covered by medicare. take advantage of the expanded coverage by calling today. (upbeat music) ♪
your best defense against erosion and cavities is strong enamel- nothing beats it. new pronamel active shield actively shields the enamel to defend against erosion and cavities. i think that this product is a gamechanger for my patients- it really works.
all right, that's going to do it for me tonight. "way too early" with jonathan lemire is up next.   a survivor of the mass shooting in texas details his desperate calls to 911 as the gunman opened fire on his family. his story is now raising questions about the response from law enforcement.