voters in this country. >> and let's just say, it wasn't a defeat, we won. mona charen, carlos curbelo, thank you both for your time. appreciate you both. that is all in on this monday night. you can watch the mehdi hasanshowsundays, eight pm eastern, right here on msnbc. butmsnbc, but therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. good evening,rachel. >> the busiest man in cable news. thank you so much, mehdi. i really appreciate it. and thanks to you at home for joining us. really happy to have you here with us. so it was four years ago, 2019, late august, it was a sunny day, a nice day to be outside at lunchtime. and lots of people were. in germany, in central berlin, there's a nice park, a nice big urban park, quite near the german kind of the german version of the white house, near the federal chancellor, where the german chancellor lives and has offices. this park is called thecliner
tear garden park. it's very fancy, lovely. lots of trees, fancy buskers. sculpture, there's a big children's playground. it's big, about 17 acres right in the heart of central berlin. and four years ago, on august 23rd, 2019, a man rode into the park on this black mountain bike. the man had long black hair and sort of neat beard. he was wearing ray-bans and a gray hoodie. he had a backpack on. he cycles over by the swingset in the park. and he reached into his backpack. he pulled out a glock 26, which is a .9 millimeter pistol. it had a silencer screwed on. from his mountain bike, he used that gun to shoot a man walking in the park. the man fell to the ground. the man on the bike then got off his bike, walked over to the man
who he had just shot and as that man lay there on the ground, the man from the bike shot him two more times. one, two. both shots into the man's head. a very professional hitman kind of hit. right next to the swing set in that park. right at midday on a sunny friday in august in a packed city park in front of all of the kids at the playground. shot the guy once in the back, he fell. got off his bike, walked over, shot him twice in the head. this is just down the block from the german chancellor's office. with his target laying dead on the ground, shot three times, the man with the gun got back on the black mountain bike and rode away. here's how the "wall street journal" describes what he did next. quote, with his target lying dead near the children's
playground, the assassin hopped on his bike and pedaled away. he stopped at the nearby river, changed out of his clothes, and peeled off a wig revealing a bald head. he hurled his disguise and his bicycle and his pistol and silencer into the water, into the river. then he shaved off part of his beard with an electric razor there on the side of the river, he did that. so he's been wearing a wig. he's got a change of clothes with him. he's got the electric razor with him to change the look of his beard. takes off the wig, changes his clothes, uses the razor. and then he puts the gun and the silencer and the bike all in the river. okay, but wait, that's his transportation, right? once he's thrown the bicycle into the river, how is he going to keep moving? he had also stashed an electric scooter nearby on the river bank. and it was while he was trying to get away in this new disguise
with the newly trimmed beard on the electric scooter that the police actually were able to get him. the unprofessional part of this otherwise very professional hit is that apparently, the guy didn't notice that two people, two passer-by had seen him in this part of his operation on the side of the river. they had seen him take off the wig and throw the gun and the bike and the disguise and everything into the river, seen him change his clothes. those two people thought that was weird enough that even though they hadn't witnessed the shooting, they called police about this bizarre behavior, and that is how police got him. but then once police had him in custody, there started a new saga because they had no idea who he was. this guy had no id, and all he would tell them over and over again was an obvious lie. he kept saying he was just a random tourist. i have nothing to do with any of this. the "wall street journal" also
describes how finally, after two years, investigators were able to piece together his identity and what brought him to that park that sunny friday in august. they were able to piece together his identity thanks to his russian special forces tattoos, thanks to his fake brand-new issued passport, thanks to investigators like bellingcat tracing his movements. ultimately in court, german prosecutors made their case that this guy, the guy on the mountain bike, was fsb. fsb, what used to be the kgb, russian security services. they made the case he was in the part of the fsb that sends trained russian government hitmen all over the world to other countries to carry out assassinations on orders from the kremlin. in court, they even presented a video of this guy killing someone else. the exact same way. riding up to a guy on a bike, shooting the guy in the back and
in the head. a different killing from years earlier. the german court ultimately ruled in 2021 that the bicycle riding hitman had committed that murder in the park in berlin, the court also concluded that the murder had been commissioned. it had been ordered by the russian government. the victim in this case in the park in berlin, it was a chicken man who had applied for asylum in germany saying he needed to leave the former soviet sphere effectively because the russian security services had made multiple attempts on his life. he feared for his life so he needed asylum in germany. he was right about the russian government wanting to assassinate him and that being a real risk. hot he was wrong about was the idea that being in germany could protect him from that. and you know, whether or not you
remember this exact broad daylight kids playground swing set adjacent kremlin assassination in a western capital in 2019, you probably remember some of the other things kind of like this. they kind of start to blend together after there's been a bunch of them. the year before the german park mountain bike hitman, there was the novichok assassination attempt. remember that, the nerve agent assassination attempt in salisbury, england. they just missed killing the target and his daughter, but they did kill a random british citizen at the wrong place at the wrong time. before that, it was russian agents with the radioactive polonium poisoning plot. the fatal radium active poison in the teapot in london. you might remember in june this summer, "the new york times" reported on another plot by russian agents to try to assassinate a guy in the united states, in miami.
that plot was disrupted but the justice department explicitly named the russian government as directing that operation and the biden administration kicked out ten russian diplomats from this country in retaliation. there's so many of these things they blend together. apparently, they have a whole section of the fsb that's just for sending russian government hitmen to other countries all over the world to carry out kremlin ordered assassinations. because among the many fine and practical accomplishments of the putin government in russia, one of the things they do all the time is send professional hitmen all over the world to assassinate people in broad daylight in city parks, in city streets, in department stores and parking lots. and then, when their hit men get caught, the russian government takes hostages. they take foreign hostages in russia. which is why the 2019cliner
teargarten assassination is pack in the news today, back in the pages of the "wall street journal" today. because the latest american hostage, the latest innocent american civilian hostage taken by the russian government is a "wall street journal" reporter, a young man just 31 years old. his name is evan. and as the "wall street journal" puts it in their headline now, quote, putin wants his hitman back. meaning the kremlin is now signaling that if the united states wants to ever get evan, this innocent american reporter hostage out of russia, or maybe some other western hostages, some other american hostages they're holding, maybe u.s. marine veteran paul whelan, if the u.s. ever wants any of those people back, the kremlin is now signaling that they want some kind of trade that will give them back the swing set mountain bike assassin from berlin. they want their russian special forces fsb hitman out of prison in germany. not because he didn't
assassinate a guy in broad daylight in a public park in germany, but because they asked him to do it. he was just doing his job for the russian government, and now they would like him back. so they'll take american hostages in order to get him back. it's not even like dealing with a country. it's like dealing with a drug gang, like a cartel or some sadistic low level mob boss. right? this is how they do things. we have the berlin assassin from 2019 back in the news right now because maybe russia wants to trade him for the american reporter they took hostage in march. somebody end up with cement shoes here? somebody going to be swimming with the fishes? right? are we checking each other for switch blades in our boots? i mean, this is international relations. this is diplomacy, this is how you do it? we have also got victor bout back in the news at the same
time, right now. viktor bout, the international gun runner known for his mustache and his nickname, the merchant of teth. to get him back, russia took brittney griner hostage, february of last year, held brittney griner in prison in russia for ten months. they ownry released her in december in exchange for viktor bout being let out of prison in the united states and shipped back to russia. now that their hostage maneuver with that young american woman, that american athlete, now that that worked to spring viktor bout from prison, viktor bout is apparently now going to go into politics in russia. we learned this this weekend in "the new york times." viktor bout is going to be a real star in russian politics. they're going to make him a real asset to putin's dictatorship. the weapons smuggler to rogue states and terrorist groups. because that's the kind of hero
russia needs. it's just like an acute toxicity. there are -- there are lots of bad governments in the world. lots of bad leaders, lots and lots of bad governments. but this is like the difference between a scratch and a stabbing. what putin is doing is something special in the world, something acutely deliberately toxic. it's not a stomach ache. it's food poisoning. in russia, ten days ago, putin's government decided to declare that the winner of the nobel peace prize literally the winner of the nobel peace prize in 2021, putin has just declared he is a foreign agent, making it literally illegal for anyone to work with him in russia. making it a crime to work with him. what is foreign agenty about him, so evil and criminal about
him? he's a newspaper editor. his newspaper has already been chased out of russia under threat of imprisonment or worse. but why wouldn't he? why would a nobel peace prize stop him? putin is on like a kind of a doctor evil high at the moment. still apparently pumped after what appears to be the plane crash assassination of the war lord he cultivated to force russian prisoners to fight against their will in ukraine. a man who at the time of his death was under federal criminal indictment in the united states for his alleged role in helping carry out the kremlin's attack on our 2016 presidential election to mess with american democracy, to try to make americans hate and distrust each other more than we already do, and not incidentally, to try to get a particularly pro-putin republican candidate, donald trump, into the u.s. white house. he's on a high from that assassination, that apparent assassination. today, putin is preparing to host the leader of a neighboring
country who is reportedly going to start supplying russia with a whole new stream of weapons and munitions to use against the people of ukraine. the armored train was seen to leave pyongyang and now putin will be hosting in russia the autocratic cult dictator of nuclear armed north korea. because the north korean dictator is the kind of guy who frankly really speaks his language these days. and really, what better ally could you look for? when you're looking to scale up the largest land war in europe since hitler started invading his neighbors and kicked off world war ii 84 years ago. who would make a better ally when you're looking to scale up the terror against the civilian population in your unprovoked invasion of a neighboring sovereign democratic state which you invaded to punish their grave crime of existing. what better alliance can you imagine assembling to scale up that war and of course to take
sides together against the country putin most hates in the whole world, which of course is us. the united states. that's kind of the smell of things in russia right now. that's the vibe from that particular government, from that particular leader. and so what is elon musk doing with them? the walter isaacson much hyped biography of elon musk that comes out tomorrow includes a story about the ukrainian military planning to launch an attack on russian navy ships in port in crimea. and per mr. isaacson's account, mr. musk took action to make sure the ukrainian military would not be able to do that. mr. musk making sure the ukrainian military could not use his starlink satellite internet network which is what ukraine used for connectivity on the battlefield to advance that operation. he got personally involved to make sure ukraine had its hands
tied in battle. that was reported in mr. isaacson's biography, first reported by the economist in october. then last month, in the new yorker, reporter ronan farrow reported more detail about how elon musk has been stopping ukrainian forces from using this crucial supply line, from using starlink in kherson and zaporizhzhia and donetsk and luhansk. musk has been geoffensing all those places in ukraine, fencing those places off from the starlink satellite network deliberately to hamstring ukraine's military, deliberately to stop ukraine defending its territory in this war against russia after russia invaded them. so i mean, not to get too simple here, but like, mr. musk is american.
he's an american citizen. and it is the explicit out loud not at all hidden totally overt totally emphatic policy of the united states government to support ukraine in its war against russia. after russia invaded them. we provide ukraine, our ally, lots of military aid and training and intelligence and all sorts of other assistance. they are our ally in that war. but there's this one american private citizen who is intervening to try to stop ukraine from winning the war. to try to stop ukraine from defending itself against this russian invasion. trying to stop it, and in fact, stopping it. by turning their communication lines on and off at will as he sees fit. or as someone sees fit. because here's the crucial thing. in mr. izenson's new book and in mr. farrow's reporter for the
new york, the thing that stands out, here a quote about intervening in the war to stop ukraine's attack on russian ships, when mr. musk made that decision, quote, he had just spoken to the russian ambassador. he just spoke to the russian ambassador and then he made the decision to cut ukraine's supply lines so they couldn't fight russia. here's how mr. farrow describes musk's own description of who he was talking to when the pentagon intervened to try to fix this problem, tried to get him to stop messing with ukraine's supply lines, tried to get him to stop messing with ukraine's ability to fight off the russian military. this is from the new yorker. to the dismay of pub -- excuse me, to the dismay of pentagon officials, musk volunteered that he had spoken with putin personally. another individual told me, meaning told ronan farrow, that musk had made the same assertion
that he had spoken with putin in the weeks before he tweeted his pro-russia peace plan. musk said that his consultations with the kremlin were regular. musk later denied having spoken with putin about ukraine, but on the phone, musk said he was looking at his laptop and could see, quote, the entire war unfolding through a map of starlink activity. this was like three minutes before he said, well, i had this great conversation with putin. the senior defense official told me, and we were like, oh, dear. this is not good. it is important that this one middle aged red pilled right wing billionaire has take one of the world's major social networks and turned it into a fire hose of totally toxic anti-semitic and pro-nazi content. now, publicly blaming the jews
for the financial woes of his company while personally using his power and his public profile to boost and validate literally self declared anti-semites and white nationalists who are now the loudest influences on that network. that's an important thing in the world. it also seems important that the u.s. space program decided to make itself dependent on this same one guy for much of its important ongoing work. as space becomes more and more and more important to american national security. but given the role of russia in the world today, given who they are and how they're conducting themselves these days, given the place russia has in -- given the place of russia in relation to america's place in the world today, how is it possible that it is the russian government that is reportedly advising this one american private citizen, advising him about turning on and turning off the single most
crucial supply line for the military in the country russia is fighting? the country that russia has invided, the country that russia has invaded that is urour ally. this is an american citizen reportedly taking advice from the russian government about how to make sure america's ally loses this war against russia. how is this happening? and how is it possible that the united states government is basically just a bystander here? on this sunny day, by the swing set. joining us now is pulitzer prize winning journalist, ronan farrow, investigative reporter and contributing writer for the new yorker. his recently published piece about this is elon musk's shadow rule. thank you very much for making time to be here tonight. i really appreciate it. >> thanks for having me,rachel. >> first, let me ask you if i have characterized your reporting correctly.
i know that you and mr. isaacson and a reporter for the economist and other people have gotten to different pieces of this what i see as sort of the same story. did i characterize your reporting accurately and do you see it sort of the way i presented it? >> you did, and i always respect how you give viewers the timeline of everyone who contributed to our understanding. i would also point out the financial times as this was happening was doing good leading reporting about the outages in terms of coverage on the ukrainian front lines. i talked to not just the officials you mentioned but also ukrainian soldiers on the ground who had the experience personally of being shocked as they attempted to advance in some of these critical areas where russia was attempting to seize control and as they lost the ability of commanders to communicate with troops on the front lines. there are varying opinions about how directly that contributed to, for instance, potential loss of life, but everyone around this seems to agree, what happened is as you rendered it, and there was a grievous
consequence for people on the ground. >> i want to talk specifically about mr. musk's communications with the russian government. as you point out in the new yorker, and you're right, there's nothing illegal about an american private citizen talking to a foreign government. that said, it's not exactly legal for american private citizens to conduct their own foreign policy contrary to the interests of stated u.s. foreign policy. but we're sort of in that, within those bounds, i think a little bit in trying to figure this out. you reported that mr. musk has had direct conversations with russian officials. we have seen mr. musk post very obviously pro-russian propaganda, after these conversations. you connect that communication apparently, mr. isaacson connects that communication as well in time to mr. musk's decision to cut off this crucial communications asset for the ukrainian military. what do you understand about his communication with russia?
>> the timeline is fairly straightforward here. we have abuddant evidence of that. elon musk very often likes to identify problems in the world and swoop in and try to solve them. there's a lot of upside to that. nasa's reliance on him is also an antidote to a situation where we had no way to launch american astronauts into space unless the russians launched for us. there are positives, however, what we saw in the ukraine case is elon musk swooped in. he was tweeted with ukrainian officials saying starlink is on the way. then over the ensuing months, i think he clocked the price tag of this. there was a pragmatic concern, and there appears to be an idealogical shift, where in conferences and other settings and even eventually on twitter he started putting out public peace plans that accorded exactly with what the russians wanted. he started tweeting out information that the russians often point to, namely that there are areas around ukraine's
borders in which the local population like to say they would prefer russian rule. that's something elon musk parroted. we see all of this that's public facing. then we have the fact from multiple people now that he was in many conversations it appears with russian officials. and at least one with vladimir putin himself, later he denied that, but that does seem to be the case, and you cited a paragraph where there are unnamed officials saying that. i would point out there's also on the record people saying that. colin kahl, a senior defense official, is on the record in this piece talking about the conversation you mentioned in which elon musk was watching the map and said, i talked to vladimir putin. not in another time as he's later claimed, not about an unrelated thing. very clearly implying about this in this timeframe. >> the other thing that's so unnerving about that section of your reporting is just the idea of what mr. musk describes. on the phone, musk said he was
looking at his laptop and could see, quote, the entire war unfolding through a map of starlink activity. i don't care what nationality you are, but if you have somebody who is saying he's having direct conversations with vladimir putin, who is saying according to lots of good reporting, that he's talking to the russian government regularly and senior officials in the russian government, and he simultaneously has access to information that shows in his words the entire war unfolding in terms of what the ukrainian government is doing, what uniukrainian units are doing all over that active war zone, that's a very, very dangerous potential conduit of information just in terms of the conduct of the war. that's the biggest intelligence risk you could possibly imagine in terms of whether or not ukraine is ever going to be able to win this thing. >> needless to say,rachel, this is a grave concern to ukrainians. to american defense officials watching this conflict and trying to advance american interests in the region.
you mentioned that regardless of the legal lines, it is a unique phenomenon and potentially a problem when a private individual is brokering foreign policy like this. elon musk does have many powers of estate now. he goes on diplomatic missions. he poses for the awkward hand shake photos that we associate with elected officials and we have american officials treating him like an elected official because his power is unavoidable in these areas. elon musk is also a good lens to view the perils of that. there's a lot of good he does, ways in which he's smart, but we also see erratic behavior, how as you mentioned in the radicalism he's displayed on twitter, he has a tendency to absorb and carry water for new views that he didn't espouse previously, very rapidly. and in this case, he's also an individual who is buffeted by headwinds of incentives around his businesses and where they operate that are not always aligned with american interests. so for instance, half of all
teslas, the vehicles, are produced in a shanghai factory. that means he has to be in diplomatic conversations with beijing. and he's a fairly transparent guy in some ways. it's not clear that all of his statements around this have always been accurate. like the putin comments. however, he talks about it a lot. he goes in interviews with the financial times in one case and comes out and says, i talked to the chinese. they're mad about me giving internet access in ukraine, because remember, the chinese have backed the russians in the conflict and they're fearful of that free internet technology given to their own people. he's dealt with blowback for the ukrainian support because of his unique geopolitical position. that does underscore how dangerous it is to concentrate all of this power in the hands of private billionaires with their own interests. >> right, and it raises the question, if he's being pressured and advised by the chinese and the russians, what's the relationship of the u.s. government to him, particularly when he's conducting effectively
foreign policy against the interests of stated u.s. policy. ronan farrow, thank you for this reporting. thanks for talking with us about it tonight. good to see you. >> thanks for all you do,rachel.   much more ahead here tonight. stay with us. tonight. stay with us >> tech: cracked windshield on your new car? bring it to safelite. my customer was enjoying her new car, when her windshield cracked. [gasp] >> customer: my car! >> tech vo: she didn't take it to the dealer. she scheduled with safelite. we have the latest technology for the newest vehicles. and we do more replacements and recalibrations than anyone else. >> customer: thank you so much. >> tech: don't wait-- schedule now. ♪ pop music ♪ >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ (fisher investments) in this market, you'll find fisher investments is different than other money managers. (other money manager) different how? aren't we all just looking for the hottest stocks? (fisher investments) nope. we use diversified strategies to position our client's portfolios for their long-term goals.
(other money manager) but you still sell investments that generate high commissions for you, right? (fisher investments) no, we don't sell commission products. we're a fiduciary, obligated to act in our client's best interest. (other money manager) so when do you make more money, only when your clients make more money? (fisher investments) yep. we do better when our clients do better. at fisher investments, we're clearly different. as someone living with type 2 diabetes, i want to keep it real and talk about some risks. with type 2 diabetes you have up to 4 times greater risk of stroke, heart attack, or death. even at your a1c goal, you're still at risk ...which if ignored could bring you here... ...may put you in one of those... ...or even worse. too much? that's the point. get real about your risks and do something about it. talk to your health care provider about ways to lower your risk of stroke, heart attack, or death. learn more at getrealaboutdiabetes.com
what do we always say, son? liberty mutual customizes your car insurance... so you only pay for what you need. that's my boy. ♪ stay off the freeways! only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ age is just a number, and mine's unlisted. try boost® high protein with 20 grams of protein for muscle health versus 16 grams in ensure® high protein. boost® high protein. now available in cinnabon® bakery-inspired flavor. learn more at boost.com/tv (♪♪) rsv can be a dangerous virus... [sneeze] ...for those 60 and older. it's not just a cold. and if you're 60 or older...
...you may be at increased risk of hospitalization... [coughing] ...from this highly... ...contagious virus. not all dangers come with warning labels. talk to your pharmacist or doctor... ...about getting vaccinated against rsv today. wow, you get to watch all your favorite stuff. talk to your pharmacist it's to die for. and it's all right here. streaming was never this easy, you know. this is the way. you really went all out didn't you? um, it's called commitment. could you turn down the volume? here, you can try. get way more into what your into when you stream on the xfinity 10g network.
great state of alabama is this guy. his name is steve marshall.
he's a republican. as attorney general of the state of alabama, he's in charge of administering and defending the laws within the state of alabama. and only within the state of alabama, which may sound obvious. it does not appear to be as obvious to him. with few exceptions, in alabama, abortion is illegal now. basically at any time in a woman's pregnancy. but the alabama republican attorney general is now saying, now telling the courts that he has the right to prosecute alabama residents, not just for trying to have an abortion in alabama, he says he can prosecute them and he intends to prosecute them if they help a woman leave the state of alabama to get an abortion elsewhere. to get an abortion in some other state where it's legal. he says, quote, the legality of abortion in other states is irrelevant. to put a point on that, the attorney general in alabama now says he has the right not just to ban abortion within alabama's
borders. he says the state also has the right to effectively ban abortion for alabama women anywhere in the country. to prosecute it as a crime no matter where you go, alabama will follow you. when roe fell last year, at the supreme court, the assurance from republicans was that it would be back to the states now. it would be up to the individual states, whether or not they wanted to ban abortion. some states would ban abortion, sure, but if you lived in a state that allowed abortion, well then, you have nothing to worry about. well now we've got one state's republican attorney general saying he's going bring criminal prosecutions for abortions in states where abortion is legal. republicans' ambition on banning abortion, on locking people up for it, on banning it everywhere, it is intense and unabating right now. and along with the real life consequences that has for women all over this country, this is
also the sort of thing that has real electoral consequences which you can see democrats at work on here. >> reproductive health care decisions are among the most personal a woman will ever make. your choices should be made by you and your doctor, and the last people who should be involved are these guys. >> first of all, i'm the one that got rid of roe v. wade. >> florida governor desantis quietly signed into law one of the strictest abortion bans. >> governor desantis, you signed a six-week abortion ban in florida. >> i believe in a culture of life. >> if i were president of the united states, i would literally sign the most conservative pro-life legislation that they can get through congress. >> you believe in punishment for abortion, yes or no? >> the answer is that there has to be some form of punishment. >> for the woman? >> yeah, some form. >> president biden and vice president harris are determined to restore roe v. wade, and they will never allow a national abortion ban to become law.
as long as they are in office, decisions about your body will be made by you, not by them. >> that ad from the biden/harris campaign is part of a $25 million ad buy which is big, running in seven battleground states. the biden/harris campaign is running this ad targeting anti-abortion republican policies. earlier than any incumbent nominee has begun running ads in the last two presidential cycles. they're up early and big. a good reminder about the potency of the abortion issue, but i think it's also a good reminder that republican governance in individual states can easily become a national story, can easily become a defining problem for republicans who are hoping nobody notices what they're doing in individual states. and i think we're seeing that happen right now in a state like alabama on abortion. but it is also happening on a separate but equally important issue in a really important
swing state, and we have that story here next. remember the things you loved... ...before asthma got in the way? fasenra is an add-on treatment for asthma driven by eosinophils. it's designed to target and remove them and helps prevent asthma attacks. fasenra is not for sudden breathing problems or other eosinophilic conditions. allergic reactions may occur. don't stop your asthma treatments without talking with your doctor. tell your doctor if your asthma worsens. headache and sore throat may occur. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection. get back to better breathing.
ask your doctor about fasenra. oh... stuffed up again? so congested! you need sinex saline from vicks. just sinex, breathe, ahhhh! what is — wow! sinex. breathe. ahhhhhh!
teeth sensitivity is so common. it immediately feels like somebody's poking directly on the nerve. i recommend sensodyne. sensodyne toothpaste goes inside the tooth and calms the nerve down. and my patents say: “you know doc, it really works." [sneeze] (♪♪) astepro allergy, steroid free allergy relief that starts working in 30 minutes, while other allergy sprays take hours. with astepro's unbeatably fast allergy relief you can astepro and go! ( ♪ ♪ ) start your day with nature made. the #1 pharmacist recommended vitamin and supplement brand. eat pretzels. eat more pretzels. watch movies. watch more movies. get airline miles. get onekeycash. book in-app to earn onekeycash on top of your airline miles.
trying vapes to quit smoking might feel like progress, get onekeycash. but with 3x more nicotine than a pack of cigarettes - vapes increase cravings - trapping you in an endless craving loop. nicorette reduces cravings until they're gone for good.
it's called the princeton gerrymandering project. very forgettable name, sorry. but it does something very simple. they look at political maps from around the country, district lines for congress and state legislatures. this look at the maps for how well the maps create competitive elections, whether they give one side an unfair advantage over
the other side. they look at the maps for fairness and give them a letter grade like the grades you get in school. in the great state of wisconsin where the districts were drawn by the republican legislature, the state house maps get an f. same for the wisconsin state senate maps. those also get an f. for failure. the failure for wisconsin democracy in those maps translates into a win for wisconsin republicans. the bottom line with those maps is that even when way more people in wisconsin vote for democrats, republicans win most of the seats anyway. a nice trick. wisconsin voters appear to be just about fed up with this. consider what happened this year when they voted for a new state supreme court justice. liberal candidate janet told voters the wisconsin maps are wrong. she called the maps rigged. she said they do not reflect people in this state. voters heard that message and they picked janet by a margin of 11 points, a resounding margin.
her victory created a liberal majority on the wisconsin supreme court for the first time in 15 years with a huge win. and so wisconsin republicans freaked out. before she hears a single case on the supreme court, republicans are threatening to impeach her. they would need a majority vote in the house to impeach her. they have that. they would need a two-thirds majority in the senate to remove her. a two-thirds majority, which they also have. wisconsin democrats are now launching a $4 million ad campaign to alert wisconsin voters, a $4 million campaign to alert wisconsin voters to what the republicans are doing, to what the republican plan is for this new justice that the voters in the state just elected by such a resounding margin. the chair of the state democratic party told the national pres this week, quote, the longer they push this forward, the more political price we want to build for republicans in the legislature and the whole gop machinery.
this could become a fireball that eats all of them up through 2024. joining us now is the chair of the wisconsin democratic party, ben wickler. nice to see you. thanks for being here. >> thanks so much,rachel. >> the thing that i think is even if you don't know anything about wisconsin politics, the thing that i think is shocking from the outside is the size of her victory in that state-wide election and then the immediate move to remove her anyway even before she's done anything as a judge. how is this being viewed inside the state? >> there's no more fundamental american value than freedom to choose our own leaders. so when wisconsinites find out that a group of politicians led by robin voss, the republican speaker, are threatening to overturn the last election just to lock in their own power and prevent the public from choosing who leads the state, they are outraged. we have been flooded with calls, people are donating left and
right. and more critically, they're calling republicans in the state legislature to tell them not to do this. not to cross this line and throw out or erase a million votes that took place just a few month ago. it is shocking, and this is a moment when everyone needs to weigh in, to stop the gop from essentially undermining the entire system of democracy in our state and creating a precedent that gets spread across the country. >> as i mentioned, ben, the republicans do on paper have the votes to do this. they certainly have a majority in the house and they have two-thirds in the senate. basically exactly, as far as i understand it. what that means is they have the votes to do it, but with zero margin. that means if there are any defectors from this plan, it won't work. are any republicans visibly getting a little nervous or wobbly about this? >> yes indeed. so now that the public is finding out about this plot, at the democratic party of wisconsin, we sut up a website at defendjustice.com, with a
scorecard. and if you go there, you'll see that we have our first republican state representative who came out publicly and said no, he would vote against impeachment. we have a few that have told constituents they're against, although they haven't said so publicly, and then we have a whole bunch that are saying nothing about their position. our sense is that they realize that this is a total political disaster for them. that even if they successfully impeach a supreme court justice to lock in their power, which has never happened before in wisconsin or anywhere else, there's never been a purely political impeachment, even if they did that, voters would eventually have the final say. so they need to step back from this brink, and frankly, what they're proposing is against the wisconsin constitution. so they have a pretty good exit ramp. they can just say they looked at it, it doesn't meet the standard that the constitution sets out. they're done. if they don't do that, they're going to have to answer to voters for the rest of their political lives.
>> ben wickler, chair of the wisconsin democratic party. ben, i know this is a very hard fight in your state right now. thanks for keeping us apprised. i appreciate it. >> thanks so much. >> all right, we'll be right back. stay with us. (dad) we got our subaru forester wilderness to discover all of the places that make us feel something more. (vo) subaru is the national park foundation's largest corporate donor, helping expand access for all.
my name is caron and i'm from brooklyn. i work for the city of new york as a police administrator. i oversee approximately 20 people and my memory just has to be sharp. i always hear people say, you know, when you get older, you know, people lose memory. i didn't want to be that person. i decided to give prevagen a try. my memory became much sharper. i remembered more! i've been taking prevagen for four years now. prevagen. at stores everywhere without a prescription.
bladder leak underwear has one job. i just want to feel protected! always discreet protects like no other. with double leak guards that help prevent gushes escaping from the sides. and a rapid dry core that locks in your heaviest gush quickly for up to zero leaks. always discreet- the protection we deserve! a bend with a bump in your erection might be painful, embarassing, difficult to talk about, and could be peyronie's disease or pd, a real medical condition that urologists can diagnose and have been treating for more than 8 years with xiaflex®, the only fda-approved nonsurgical treatment for appropriate men with pd. along with daily gentle penile stretching and straightening exercises, xiaflex has been proven to help gradually reduce the bend. don't receive if the treatment area involves your urethra; or if you're allergic to any of the ingredients. may cause serious side effects, including: penile fracture or other serious injury during an erection and severe allergic reactions,
including anaphylaxis. seek help if you have any of these symptoms. do not have any sexual activity during and for at least 4 weeks after each treatment cycle. sudden back pain reactions and fainting can happen after treatment. tell your doctor if you have a bleeding condition or take blood thinners as risk of bleeding or bruising at the treatment site is increased. join the tens of thousands of men who've been prescribed xiaflex. make an appointment with a xiaflex-trained urologist. visit bentcarrot.com to find one today. when i was diagnosed with h-i-v, i didn't know who i would be. but here i am... being me. keep being you... and ask your healthcare provider about the number one prescribed h-i-v treatment, biktarvy. biktarvy is a complete, one-pill, once-a-day treatment used for h-i-v in many people whether you're 18 or 80. with one small pill, biktarvy fights h-i-v
to help you get to undetectable—and stay there whether you're just starting or replacing your current treatment. research shows that taking h-i-v treatment as prescribed and getting to and staying undetectable prevents transmitting h-i-v through sex. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects include a buildup of lactic acid and liver problems. do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your healthcare provider. common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache. no matter where life takes you, biktarvy can go with you. talk to your healthcare provider today.   here's something to watch which might not otherwise be on your radar. this is for this week. this week ahead. there are 18 people charged alongside former president donald trump in the racketeering indictment in fulton county,
georgia. of those 18, only one is currently a serving elected official. his name is shawn still, a georgia state senator. he was one of the fake electors who signed forged documents claiming trump had won georgia when he hadn't. now senator still is under indictment, and here is a fascinating quirk of georgia state law. when a sitting lawmaker is indicted for a felony, the governor is required by the georgia state constitution to appoint a commission to review the indictment to determine whether that sitting lawmaker should be suspended from office while he or she is facing charges. so georgia's republican governor, brian kemp, is required to do this by the state constitution. he has now appointed a three-member panel. he picked three republicans, naturally. but under the law, those three republicans on the commission have to report their findings by the end of this week as to whether this indictment against senator still, quote, relates to and adversely affects the
administration of his office as a state senator. if they find that it does, governor kemp has to suspend mr. still from office for the duration of this case. so this is just worth watching, i think, this is going to be a real life test of how much accountability republicans are willing to dole out amongst themselves on this issue. especially after governor brian kemp came out last week at a press conference and said he wouldn't be part of any republican plan to remove fani willis from office, the d.a. who is prosecuting the case against shawn still and trump and everyone else. this piece of the accountability puzzle is now in the hands of georgia's elected republican officials. it's going to be really interesting to see what they'll do with it, whether they'll let him keep on with his job or suspend him. also interesting to see will be a brief that fani willis is expected to file tomorrow. in this brief, she's expected to
explain how she thinks it would be possible to try all 19 defendants in the rico case together. and how she thinks it would be possible for that trial of all 19 defendants to start next month. at last week's hearing that touched on this, the judge in the case declared himself very skeptical that the d.a.'s team would be able to do that because among other things the sheer volume of pretrial motions that would need to be resolved before the trial starts, for all 19 defendants. just tonight, trump and rudy giuliani and other defendants have filed a whole slew of motions including some that are just asking for the charges to be dismissed. but the court will have to deal with all of those things anyway, and fani willis tomorrow will have to try to convince the judge in georgia that all the defendants can all go to trial all together all at once next month. they have to file that brief tomorrow and then there will be a hearing before the judge
thursday morning at tep:00 a.m. which will be televised. you'll be able to watch it live right here on msnbc. say, son? liberty mutual customizes your car insurance... so you only pay for what you need. that's my boy. now you get out there, and you make us proud, huh? ♪ bye, uncle limu. ♪ stay off the freeways! only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪
thursday night football on prime. it's on. welcome to thursday night football. al michaels along with kirk herbstreit. thursday night football returns, as the minnesota vikings take on the philadelphia eagles. stream thursday night football. only on prime. unreal! detect this: living with hiv, i learned i can stay undetectable with fewer medicines. that's why i switched to dovato. dovato is a complete hiv treatment for some adults. no other complete hiv pill uses fewer medicines to help keep you undetectable than dovato. detect this: most hiv pills contain 3 or 4 medicines. dovato is as effective with just 2. if you have hepatitis b, don't stop dovato without talking to your doctor.
don't take dovato if you're allergic to its ingredients or taking dofetilide. this can cause serious or life-threatening side effects. if you have a rash or allergic reaction symptoms, stop dovato and get medical help right away. serious or life-threatening lactic acid buildup and liver problems can occur. tell your doctor if you have kidney or liver problems, or if you are pregnant, breastfeeding, or considering pregnancy. dovato may harm an unborn baby. most common side effects are headache, nausea, diarrhea, trouble sleeping, tiredness, and anxiety. detect this: i stay undetectable with fewer medicines. ask your doctor about switching to dovato. tv: try tide power pods with 85% more tide in every pod. who needs that much more tide? (crashing sounds) everyone's gonna need more tide. it's a mess out there. that's why there's 85% more tide in every power pod. -see? -baby: ah. ma, ma, ma— ( clears throat ) for fast sore throat relief, try vicks vapocool drops. with two times more menthol per drop, and powerful vicks vapors to vaporize sore throat pain.
vicks vapocool drops. vaporize sore throat pain.
one last thing before we go tonight. good news. today the fda approved an updated covid-19 covid-19 booster shot. just in time for the new uptick in covid cases that we are experiencing now. and just in time for the rollout of the so-called seasonal vaccines like the shot you get for the flu or the vaccine for rsv, they have it now for infants and people over 60. tomorrow, the expert advisory committee will meet tomorrow to give the final step on who qualifies for the new covid booster. but the fda has approved it as of tonight. that's gonna do it for us for now. now, it's time for the last word with lawrence o'donnell. good evening, lawrence. >> but evening,rachel. and, you know, you know what i miss? i must not knowing or caring about who was the democratic party