being here, and for giving us this blockbuster reporting. it's really good, thank you for being here. >> thank you for having me. >> that is it for all in on this monday night. therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. good evening,rachel. in" on this monday night. "therachelmaddow♪showstarts right now.   thanks at home for being with us. it's good to have you here. now, i don't think we know why vladimir putin really decided to invade ukraine. who knows what lurks in his hard little heart. but we do know that lots of people who are sympathetic to putin or who are at least inclined to apologize for or explain the way the worst of what putin does a lot of those people had a favorite supposed explanation for why putin felt the need to start that war. a lot of putin apologists and putin sympathizers said that
putin felt like he had to invade ukraine because he felt very shy about nato. the nato alliance just had too many countries in it, too many countries that were too close to russia, and that all just gave putin this terrible feeling about nato being too close, and so therefore, he had to invade ukraine. i don't actually think that's it. i don't think we know all of the reasons he does what he does, who knows what's going on in his little short dictator heart of hearts. but if, in fact, the apologists are at least partially correct, if, in fact, putin was hoping that one of the effects of him invading ukraine would be a brush back to nato, that he would be able to worry less about nato, and somehow starting this war would make that happen, sorry. when putin invaded ukraine, there were 30 countries in nato. now there are about to be 32.
finland was the 31st country to join in april. that gave russia 800 more miles of border directly with a nato country, and now as of tonight, we know that sweden is going to join nato as well. sweden said months ago that they wanted to join, but this is something that really until today it looked like it couldn't happen. and that's because for a new country to join nato, it has to be a unanimous decision. all of the other countries in the nato alliance have to agree with the decision. if one country says no to it, it doesn't happen, and in the case of sweden, it was an original nato or it was a nato member, a single nato country, turkey, that said no. they said finland was okay with them, but they were not okay with sweden joining. as recently as this weekend, turkey's president was still saying, no, turkey was not assent to this. turkey would not allow sweden to join. but the biden administration,
president biden himself kept expressing confidence that turkey was going to change its mind on this, that they would allow sweden to join, and nobody quite knew why president biden seemed so confident it would happen. he kept saying it would be fine, that he was sure it would get done, that he and his team were working on it. now, apparently as of tonight, they got it done. president biden had one-on-one discussions with turkey's president yesterday, president biden's national security adviser, jake sullivan was apparently working with both turkey and sweden all day yesterday and today. secretary of state tony blinken reportedly met with the turkish foreign minister, so his turkish counter part three times over the last five days, including today. so it apparently took a real full court press at the very top levels of the biden administration, but as of tonight, they got it done. turkey has relented. turkey now agrees. the president said sweden joining nato is fine with him. the turkish parliament does have to sign off, but they will, and
then sweden will become nato country number 32, which is a huge win for president biden and the biden administration. this is definitely one of those, you know, they said it couldn't be done situations. it has been done. it's going to happen. that is a huge win for biden. it also has to be said, it is a humiliated kick in the tiny little dictatorial pants of russian president vladimir putin. i mean, if you started this war in ukraine because you were so upset at the size of nato, well, how's that big strategic thinking working out for you now? again, finland is the first country to join nato after russia invaded ukraine. now we know as of tonight there's going to be a second. sweden will join as well. we will have more on that developing news later on in the course of theshowtonight ft here at home, in terms of our politics here at home, things are getting a little punchy, a
little punchier than it ever should be, frankly, and we probably should have known to expect it. this is tape you might remember seeing from a couple of months ago. this is an incident in michigan in april at a meeting of the michigan republican party. a couple of county level republican party officials in the state getting into kind of a slapping, shoving fight. again, that was april of this year. then this weekend, the same republican party, the michigan republican party went back to this same hotel in claire, michigan, for another statewide republican party meeting, and apparently there was yet another punch up. craig mauger at the detroit news was first to report on what happened in michigan this weekend. it's one of those reports that i can't really improve upon so i'm just going to tell you, give it to you as mr. mauger reported it in the detroit paper. a republican man from wayne county, michigan, quote, acknowledged that he wiggled the
nob of one door leading into the meeting room while the meeting was underway. the chairman of the clare county republican party heard the wiggling of the doorknob and walked over to the door where he says he saw someone through a small window in the door flip him off. quote, the clare county republican chairman opened the door, and quote, he kicked me in the balls as soon as i opened the door. the scuffle intensified and long story shore, the claire county republican chairman provided this to the detroit news from an emergency room in clare, michigan, in an emergency room he was being treated for what appears to be a broken rib. the man who did the alleged flipping off and then the alleged ball kicking of the other republican official, he told the "detroit news" that he took off his glasses before engaging in these fisticuffs
telling "the detroit news" quote when you see me taking my glasses off, i'm ready to rock. again, statewide republican party meeting in michigan this weekend. the news outlet "bridge michigan" has a little bit more, after "the detroit news" was first to report on what happened. bridge saying charges are likely going to be pressed in this case, they also noted the man who allegedly did the flipping off and ball kicking has his own version of the story, in which he says he was not the aggressor, he says the other guy threatened him and that the other guy, quote, came out of the meeting with his dukes up. to say the least, this is not how anything in politics is supposed to go. but this is how it's going in michigan republican politics. two consecutive statewide michigan republican party meetings both at the same hotel in clare, michigan, both which
resulted in physical fights among republicans who were there for the meeting. i should note that, i mean, i was going to say it's understandable, tensions are high. it's not understandable. no matter how high tensions are, you don't need to kick anybody in the who'sy whatsy at a political meeting. there's no excuse for it. michigan republicans, you should know, are doing poorly right now in lots of different ways. this was one of the state parties that was just convulsed by former president donald trump demanding that michigan republicans should find a way to overthrow the election results in that state and declare him the winner in 2020, even though he lost in michigan. the implications of that, the repercussions of that have been strange and are ongoing. the state does now have an election denier as its state chairwoman, michigan republican party chairwoman says that the, you know, donald trump's election claims should have
resulted in michigan throwing out the vote results and instead declaring him the winner. she also refused to acknowledge her own massive double digit loss in a statewide race when she ran for secretary of state recently. in addition to her being the state party chair for the first time in four decades, michigan republicans hold no statewide offices and neither house of the legislature. they have never been as far out of power as they are now, at least not in the last 40 years. that said, michigan republicans are still apparently capable of breaking each other's ribs another meetings. you got that. when you see me taking my glasses off, i'm ready to rock. and just in today's news, it kind of goes downhill from there in terms of america's political snapshot at the moment. at least our political snapshot in the states. in the individual state of arizona, that's another one of these states that was just viven by these overthrow the election
demands, various parts of the arizona republican party were in a panic mode after an arizona college republican group announced that the headline speaker for its next convention is going to be a guy who's a neo-nazi. the group's flier for the upcoming conference listed three different county republican parties on the flier as if they were cosponsors of the event with the neo-nazi speaker, after one published it online and begged for party officials to distance themselves from the neo-nazi event, the republican party organizations in the three counties ultimately said they are not part of this event. you know, okay. bullet dodged. three arizona republican party county organizations are not
despite earlier reports, sponsoring the neo-nazi speaker at their conference. that said, this college republicans group from arizona still is. they're the ones who invited him, and they are absolutely still hosting him. so there's that. the group is called arizona college republicans united. hosting a neo-nazi they had lining speaker for their next conference in arizona. and if this is ringing more than just alarm bells for you, if it's also just ringing a bell for you, it may be that you also heard recently about this material that was circulated at the most recent donald trump rally in south carolina. this is a flier promoting what is supposedly a new political party. it has the number one plank in its platform, secure a permanent white majority. we're not going to spend too much time here on this group and what they want, but consider also that plank number four in their platform is quote, a 2% ceiling on jewish
representation. this flier was circulated at trump's last rally in south carolina. the group that produced this flier and claims the principles have been bragging online about how well received they were with this stuff when they went person by person, in hand, through the crowd, at donald trump's last rally. again, this is a rally for the republican party's last president who was also the prohibitive front runner for the republican party's next presidential nomination. fliers circulating at his last campaign rally, secure a permanent white majority. things are also a little weird right now in the ohio republican party. the former republican house speaker in ohio was just sentenced to 20 years in federal prison. in a massive, $60 million bribery scheme that he
apparently ran while he was serving as republican speaker of the house. the former state chairman of the ohio republican party was convict in the same bribery scheme, he got five years in prison. this has not put a hitch in the state republican party of ohio. you think you're speaking of the house and the state party chairman both getting sent to federal prison on corruption charges might lead to a whoa boy moment in the state, but not so in ohio. ohio republicans are plugging away. they just announced that they no longer want any independent voters to be allowed to cast votes in republican primaries. it shows you how much they are looking to reach out to undecideds and moderates. they want close primaries now, no independents, no undeclared voters should be allowed to vote in republican primaries and they're getting ready to try to change the rules for ballot measures in the state, and that appears to be motivated solely
by the fact that they're about to lose a ballot measure on the issue of abortion really badly after ohio republicans have pursued draconian abortion bans, the state of ohio is essentially revolting against those decisions, a ballot measure that would restore abortion rights in ohio looks like it will romp on the ohio ballot, and so ohio republicans are looking to change the rules of what you're allowed to do by a public referendum in ohio so that no matter how many people vote for it in ohio, it will be very very hard to reverse their changes on abortion. when your top leadership goes to jail on federal corruption charges and the people of the state are widely opposed to how you're governing, no better plan than to make sure the people are not allowed to vote against you when they want to. but, you know, if we're looking for a top prize here, like step right up.
ohio in contention, obviously, michigan in contention with their repeated fistfights at republican party statewide meetings. arizona obviously in contention with neo-nazi college republican speaking tour. but i think if somebody is going to take the cake in this current news cycle, it's probably not the republican parties in any of those states. it's probably tennessee. you might have seen over the weekend that there was a weekend ruling from a federal appeals court in tennessee. tennessee republicans have been going after trans people every way they can. a federal appeals court this weekend on saturday in a divided 2-1 decision led that state go forward with banning specific kinds of health care for trans people. and this is not some, you know, some distant threat or something that's kind of locked up in the courts now. thanks to that appeals court ruling, again, on saturday, this weekend, for people under the age of 18, that ruling this weekend means whatever ongoing health care they have been
getting in tennessee, it is now officially illegal. that ruling went into effect immediately. any such health care, ongoing health care that you've previously been receiving has to stop immediately. but that's also happening in the context of this other thing that republicans are doing in the state of tennessee. i do think puts them sort of at the front of the line right now. the republican state attorney general in tennessee is using his office to obtain the private medical records, unredacted full medical records for patients who have had care at a particular clinic in tennessee at the vanderbilt university medical center. he's using his office as attorney general to take people's individual private unredacted medical records for the purposes of an investigation in his state attorney general's office. now vanderbilt university medical center says that they had no choice but to hand over the records after the attorney general demanded them, but they
also didn't notify their patients that they had handed over their records until after they had already started handing them in. in other words, vanderbilt presumably could have told their patients we've received this demand from the attorney general's office, we don't want to comply but we think we're going to have to. we want to let you know before we give them your records. that's not the way it went. vanderbilt university medical center reportedly started handing over the records in response to the attorney general's demands months ago, and just recently let their patients know that those records have been given. so according to reporting in the tennessean newspaper, the attorney general has taken people's medical records, he's also taken information on people who volunteer at this particular clinic. he's also taken information on anyone who has written in with a question about lgbtq health care using a web site that waset to field queries on that topic.
he's even taken the names of people who were referred to that clinic at vanderbilt, even if those people never actually got care there. the attorney general's office has collected all of this information, apparently demands all of these records going back to 2018, and now they've got them. now, years ago, we covered a similar case, at least a case with echoes of this in kansas. you might remember this story. a republican attorney general there named phil klein used the power of his office to get individual medical records of women who had been to an abortion clinic in the state of kansas. he and the staff took women's private medical records, underacketed medical records, they can used the power of their office to get them from the clinic, copied them, kept them in unsecure containers, in people's car trunks and garages, trucked them around the state,
left some at a kin coe's copy shop, these are personal private medical records, dealing with the most sensitive possible medical information. the attorney general who did that in kansas was an antiabortion activist who republicans elected to be their state attorney general. his name was phil klein. he ended up having his law license permanently suspended for doing that about ten years ago. but now here's the tennessee republican attorney general using a page out of the same play book now. demanding and getting unredacted, complete, private medical records for trans people in tennessee. as republicans use every tool they've got to try to make life miserable for trans people and their families in that state. attorney general chase strangio, the aclu is suing the state of tennessee over the ban on care for trans youth.
chase tells us tonight, quote, when you have this type of aggressive investigation from an attorney general combined with legislation, not only does it limit the care tast available, it also chills the provision of care more generally. doctors are less inclined to provide it, hospitals are less inclined to teach it. families, if there's a threat of violence or my kid's records could be exposed, i'm out of there. you have this dynamic in which care is not only being banned it's also being chilled prospectively, and that will have an effect for generations. margaret renkle, a journalist in nashville, she wrote this for the "new york times," she says, quote, tell me this isn't a witch hunt. tell me this isn't an open cap pain of terror against already vulnerable citizens who had every reason to believe that their medical records, their medical records, were confidential, and every reason to believe that the medical clinic of a major university hospital was a safe space. joining us now is ally chapman,
she leads a local chapter of the tennessee e qualmty project. she's the mom of a transgender son who received care at vanderbilt. ms. chapman, i really want to thank you for joining us tonight. it should not take bravery to speak out publicly an an issue like this. i know particularly in your state it does. i'm really grateful that you're here. thanks. >> thank you. thank you so much. >> first, let me ask you if i got any of that wrong or anything important that i'm missing about what's going on with this sort of twin nightmare in tennessee right now with the legislation that's affecting trans people and their families, and also the situation with private medical records being taken by the state attorney general. >> it is. it's really complicated. and just infuriated because it doesn't need to be this
complicated. it doesn't need to be invasive, and, you know, the issue that we have is they have not only violated the trust of patients and doctors as an institution, but vanderbilt has demonstrated that their willingness to share records when they have been compelled by the state for what i would say would be any reason. i think this is telling for people who would also be concerned about reproductive rights, just health care in general, and while we were waiting and hoping on the courts to be reasonable and make common sense rules, rulings, we know common sense is only common for those who have experienced the same things, and the reality is most of the people in the state of tennessee have not interacted or know trans kids or their families, so there's a lot of misinformation that's showing up, that shows up in the rulings, in the way they're being written by the judges. it shows up in the debates, it shows up in the arguments and
the conversations and the hate speech that's happening through bad actors like matt walsh and ben shapiro. >> on that point about common understanding and common sense, and i would add, maybe common decency, i feel like as trans people and their families have been attacked and have been demonized and as you mentioned, people in conservative media, conservative social media have really decided this is a meal ticket for them to attack this particular population in increasingly intense ways. i feel like there's a lot of differences of opinions. there's a lot of heat on this issue, but one thing i feel like where people don't have to imagine a different kind of life. they don't need to put themselves in somebody else's shoes. they can think about this through their own experience is private medical records being taken by law enforcement. and in particular, in this case, with the medical center, saying
it was compelled. it had no choice but to hand them over. not letting patients know until they had handed them over. i have to imagine, at least i have to hope, there's some empathetic reaction among other tennesseans that private medical records should stay private, that that part of this has to feel over the line to people who maybe otherwise don't see themselves as allies on this issue. >> even among, you know, even among our allies, there's still a lot of confusion and misunderstanding, and you did, you nailed it. we really need to be talking about common decency, kindness and empathy. that's not what we're seeing. we're fighting an argument when it comes to science and biology, which most people don't understand from a 3rd grade level, or are we talking about, you know, collectively the person hood of someone, and that's what i really like to focus on when i'm talking about children specifically, is these are human beings with lives. that's who i'm focused on, and
when i try to engage in conversations with people who still at this point don't understand, i think, you know, that's really challenging because it takes up a lot of energy and time. and distracts people from what we're trying to do, which is to protect trans kids. we do not want the state, and we do not want the attorney general, and we don't want the governor in their positions of power to abuse in a way that threatens these kids. that's the reality of it. and something i try to explain to people, you know, in my case, and knowing other supportive parents, we are faced with a choice. if you support your child, you're looking at hopefully a brighter future for them and discovering what that means along the way. if you choose not to accept them, if you choose to push them to the margins and allow people to push them to the margins and you give in, you're faced with two results.
one is you never see your children again. the second is they die. and people like to say that this is a hyperbolic statement. it is not. i know children who have died of suicide in the last few years, and the political rhetoric and just, you know, the conversation is so harmful. it is so very very harmful. and we need the backing of our leaders and people in positions of power, and we just do not have that. >> need the backing of leadership. you also need allies among other people in your state, whether or not they see themselves as directly affected. aly chamman local leader for the tennessee equality project. thank you so much for talking to us tonight. i know this was a really difficult situation. keep us apprised. we'd love to have you back. >> thank you so much. >> much more ahead. stay with us. >> thank you so much >> much more ahead stay with us ♪ rsv is a contagious virus that usually causes mild symptoms
but can cause more severe infections that may lead to hospitalizations... ...in adults 60 and older... ...and adults with certain underlying conditions, like copd, asthma, or congestive heart failure. talk to your doctor and visit cutshortrsv.com. are you still struggling with your bra? it's time for you to try knix. makers of the world's comfiest wireless bras. for revolutionary support without underwires, and sizes up to a g-cup, find your new favorite bra today at knix.com i'm saving with liberty mutual, mom. they customize your car insurance so you only pay for what you need. you could save $700 dollars just by switching. ooooh, let me put a reminder on my phone. on the top of the pile! oh. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪
remember the things you loved... ...before asthma got in the way? fasenra is an add-on treatment for asthma driven by eosinophils. it's designed to target and remove them and helps prevent asthma attacks. fasenra is not for sudden breathing problems or other eosinophilic conditions. allergic reactions may occur. don't stop your asthma treatments without talking with your doctor. tell your doctor if your asthma worsens. headache and sore throat may occur. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection. get back to better breathing. ask your doctor about fasenra. i will be a travel influencer... hey, i thought you were on vacation? it's too expensive. use priceline, they've got deals no one else has. what about work? i got you. looking great you guys! ♪ go to your happy price ♪ ♪ priceline ♪
just between us, you know what's better than mopping? anything! ugh. well, i switched to swiffer wetjet, and it's awesome. it's an all-in-one, that absorbs dirt and grime deep inside. and it helps prevent streaks and haze. wetjet is so worth it. love it, or your money back.

so this is a lovely restaurant in vermont called symon pierce, in a town called quichi, vermont, the restaurant has this, look at that, gorgeous patio overlooking the river, an idyllic spot. this was the view from the same patio this morning. same patio, same spot. as of this morning, after the state of vermont was just pounded with heavy rain and flash floods, look at that. torrential flooding has, flooding rainfall has just
drenched the northeast in the last 24 hours. there has been catastrophic flooding in parts of vermont. dozens of people have had to be evacuated or rescued from their homes so far. this is the town of ludlow, vermont, which is national weather service says got about a month's worth of rain in less than 24 hours yesterday. they got a 6 inch rain dump in one day yesterday. that is actually less than what parts of new york got yesterday. the same storm dumped 9 inches of rain in one day, in much of new york's hudson valley. at least one person in new york state has died. a 43-year-old woman, officials say was trying to escape rising flood waters when she was swept away and killed. these images that we're showing of water just overtaking big parts of vermont and new york, this may not be the worst of it. rivers across the northeast are expected to reach their highest peaks late tonight or early tomorrow morning. there are still flood watches in effect in parts of vermont and new york.
western new england just getting pounded. so that's what's going on in that part of the northeast today. in part of the southwest today, of course, it is the killing heat. it was 110 degrees in phoenix, arizona, today. and, you know, maybe that doesn't sound crazy. maybe that sounds kind of normal for this time of year. look, it's the tenth day in a row that temperatures have been at or above 110 degrees in phoenix. it's on track to be the longest and worst heat wave on record. the heat wave has been smothering the southwest and texas. in southern florida, extreme heat has been wreaking havoc on the temperature of the ocean. the sheer ocean temperatures across the whole globe have been warming at a faster pace than they have at any previous known year. the average surface temperature of the ocean off the florida keys this time of year is usually in the 80s. because of the heat wave, we're now seeing surface temperatures of around 96 degrees in the
ocean around the florida keys. 96 degree ocean temperatures. for context, the average hot tub can be heated somewhere around 100 degrees. it's 96 degrees in the ocean. and temperatures are expected to get worse as the week goes on there. and the coachella valley in california, temperatures this weekend could creep as high as 120. while we're on the subject of california, i should also mention the land slitds. this is rolling hills estates on the south side. the landslide destroying 12 homes. they're not certain what caused the landslide but they suspect it could be a result of all the rainfall this season which softened up the ground until it just slid away. oh, yeah, also the sky is the wrong color. as you know, parts of the northeast and upper plains states have been choking on
smoke pouring in from the wildfires in canada, pushing the air quality into dangerously unsafe territory that, you know, if you were caught in the middle of it, just felt like nothing so much as the climate apocalypse. and if you're thinking to yourself, wow, feels like a lot all at once, these kinds of terribly destructive weather events seem to be happening way more often than they used to, if you're thinking that, you're not wrong. 40 years ago, the average time between billion dollar disaster was about two and a half months, disaster that incurred more than a billion dollars in costs, would happen every 82 days. in the last five years, extreme weather events on that scale have happened every 18 days. and, yes, that is controlling for inflation. 82 days between massive billion dollar disasters versus now 18 days between billion dollar disasters.
we are in a period of chaos being unleashed by the changing climate. and now that we're experiencing these devastating events with not just alarming frequency, but accelerating frequency, now that we are sort of getting used to experiencing multiple unprecedented devastating events at the same time, all the time, the question is whether that changes us. have we changed the climate enough that now the climate will change us. have we reached a tipping point in terms of our own consciousness being raised about climate change. have we reached a tipping point where we're galvanized to move beyond panic and worry and self-preservation into some kind of action to try to turn things around. well, next up here on theshow, you're going to meet somebody who has a very very personal connection to that question as a professional in this field. his life has just been very dramatically transformed and he's going to join us here next
to talk about it. stay with us. o join us here nex to talk about it stay with us are you still struggling with your bra? it's time for you to try knix. makers of the world's comfiest wireless bras. for revolutionary support without underwires, and sizes up to a g-cup, find your new favorite bra today at knix.com trying to control my asthma felt anything but normal. ♪ ♪ enough was enough. i talked to an asthma specialist and found out my severe asthma
is driven by eosinophils, a type of asthma nucala can help control. now, fewer asthma attacks and less oral steroids that's my nunormal with nucala. nucala is a once-monthly add-on injection for severe eosinophilic asthma. nucala is not for sudden breathing problems. allergic reactions can occur. get help right away for swelling of face, mouth, tongue, or trouble breathing. infections that can cause shingles have occurred. don't stop steroids unless told by your doctor. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection. may cause headache, injection site reactions, back pain, and fatigue. talk to your asthma specialist to see if once-monthly nucala may be right for you. and learn about savings at nucala.com there's more to your life than asthma. find your nunormal with nucala.

my frequent heartburn had me taking antacid after antacid all day long but with prilosec otc just one pill a day blocks heartburn for a full 24 hours. for one and done heartburn relief, prilosec otc. one pill a day, 24 hours, zero heartburn. (warehouse ambience) introducing togo's new french dip sandwiches featuring fresh artisan bread piled high with tender roast beef, smothered with melty provolone cheese and served with hot au jus for dipping. try the roast beef or pastrami french dips today only at togo's
for the past couple of years, iowa residents in the des moines metro area turned on their local news every weeknight to see reports from local meteorologist chris gloninger. here's a sample of that from last week. >> you can see we have moderate drought conditions in des moines
officially for the first time this season. severe drought conditions across western parts of the state, and the eastern part, you might be scratching your head saying, hey, there was massive flooding. with these new extremes in the new world we're living in, you go from your record precipitation over the course of the winter to now severe drought conditions. these big swings. >> these big swings. with these new extremes, the new world that we're living in, you go from near record precip over the course of the winter to now these drought conditions, these big swings. helping iowa residents understand their changing weather in the context of our changing climate. over the course of his time at that iowa tv station, chris gloninger started receiving threats in response to that type of coverage, threats like this, quote, what's your home address? conservative iowas would like to give you an iowan welcome you will never forget. that was one e-mail mr. gloninger received during his
time at that iowa station. he writes about the experience of receiving those and other threats. he says, quote, anonymous threat on one's life has a profound effect on the body. physically i was frozen in place. mentally, my mind was spinning faster than it ever had. this wasn't the first message i had received from this person, but it wasn't the most threatening. the e-mail threat i received was followed by more nasty e-mails. one thing i knew this was a direct result of my decision to talk about climate change on television. a man who threatened mr. gloninger was pursued by police, and was found guilty of harassment. mr. gloninger's op-ed was published online by "the boston globe" magazine, he has resigned in his role as chief meteorologist at the iowa tv station, and taken a job as senior scientist in risk communication in a consulting
firm. joining us now is chris gloninger, very nice to meet you. thank you so much for being here. >> thanks and thanks for covering the existential threat of our lifetime. >> so you are both somebody who is a little bit part of the story here because you've had to make this change in your life, but you're also an expert on this topic and very good about communicating about it. i wanted to talk to you about both of those things. tell me about the decision to take the job in iowa, and the decision to leave after getting those threats. that has to have been a big professional crisis for you. >> the last three years have been a roller coaster, i work for the nbc owned station, where i launched the first weekly series on climate change, a couple of years before i moved to iowa, and it was that coverage that helped land me the job as chief meteorologist. they wanted to fill a void. they wanted to cover climate change, and my wife and i didn't have any connections there but
we thought, i know this is cliche, we thought we could make a difference. i thought i could help educate, find ways to make it palatable, relatable, so people could understand why climate change is so important. >> in terms of the lessons learned there, obviously the lesson learned there is not don't try, it's too hard, people will come after you. the lesson learned apparently, i mean, you've decided to take this kind of job where you're devoted to communicating risk issues about climate change to people. how do you feel like your thinking about those communication challenges was affected by the kind of trauma that you went through and by the threats that you got? >> it's difficult. we work weird hours. my wife is home alone from 3:00 to 11:00, and that was part of the psychological issues that i was dealing with. what is happening when my security system went off and it said person at your front door or a car driving by your house at a slow speed, it weighs on you, and i'm something that's
been engaged and proud of what i do, and when you stay engaged and when you're presenting the weather, you don't fill it with umms and ahh,s and i was finding myself in a place where i was looking for words, something i have done 18 years and never had trouble doing. it wasn't that i was talking about things that were so off the hook. they were simple tie-ins, showing data. i tried to explain that you mentioned the billion dollar disaster and the rate of return. it's fiscally conservative to adapt to and mitigate these risks than pay for cleaning up the mess. i was in a state where 65% of the energy was produced by wind. that's true energy independence. right, so all of these positives, farmers were getting supplemental income on these land leases. i was talking about, you know, some of the warmest days on record and showing trends. it wasn't like i was putting my activist hat on and talking about climate action. i was proving, i was giving data
and proving the climate science behind it. >> chris, in terms of days like this, moments like this, and there will be a lot of them, in which we've got overlapping simultaneous disasters, right, with the heat in the southwest, and the wildfire smoke from canada, with the incredible flooding and rain that we're having in the northeast, i feel like people, however they may feel about the issue of climate change in the abstract, americans by and large are understanding that we are having more extreme weather and it has to be caused by something. i feel like the barrier to people changing, making changes in their own lives or making even political changes about voting differently or thinking about these things differently, so people don't often feel like they have concrete things to do about it. it makes people feel helpless. how do you feel about that challenge, and how do you plan to address that in your future work? >> i'm excited about improving climate literacy, working with environmental justice communities, the black and brown
communities are often times left behind in these conversations and that's what i'm striving to help be equitable in these climate solutions, and i think you can get caught in the doomism of it. there's so much potential. there are jobs, it can boost the economy. it's kind of exciting when you think about all of the possibilities and in the process, we're protecting against these wild weather events that you just mentioned three in yourshowthat were having devastating impacts across all four corners o. of the country. it just made sense that communicating and getting the community involved, when youshowup at meetings, and their talking about adaptation plans, showing up on election date and voting for people who take climate action seriously, that's how you can make a difference. you don't need to quit your job, and devote 24/7 efforts into working and living it. you can take those simple steps. just be a voice. >> chris gloninger, former local
meteorologist, now the senior scientist in climate and risk communications at woods hall group. good luck, chris, we'd love to have you back anytime. thank you. >> thanks,rachel. >> we'll be right back. stay with us.rachel. >> we'll be right back stay with us with miracle ear it's all about service. they're personable... they're friendly. i'm very happy with them. we provide you with a free lifetime of aftercare. meaning free checkups, cleanings, and adjustments. i see someone new... someone happy... it's really made a difference. call miracle ear at 1-800-miracle and schedule your free, no obligation hearing evaluation today. detect this: living with hiv, i learned i can stay undetectable with fewer medicines. that's why i switched to dovato. dovato is a complete hiv treatment for some adults. no other complete hiv pill uses fewer medicines to help keep you undetectable than dovato. detect this: most hiv pills contain 3 or 4 medicines. dovato is as effective with just 2.
if you have hepatitis b, don't stop dovato without talking to your doctor. don't take dovato if you're allergic to its ingredients or taking dofetilide. this can cause serious or life-threatening side effects. if you have a rash or allergic reaction symptoms, stop dovato and get medical help right away. serious or life-threatening lactic acid buildup and liver problems can occur. tell your doctor if you have kidney or liver problems, or if you are pregnant, breastfeeding, or considering pregnancy. dovato may harm an unborn baby. most common side effects are headache, nausea, diarrhea, trouble sleeping, tiredness, and anxiety. detect this: i stay undetectable with fewer medicines. ask your doctor about switching to dovato.
as americans, there's one thing we can all agree on. the promise of our constitution and the hope that liberty and justice is for all people. but here's the truth. attacks on our constitutional rights, yours and mine are greater than they've ever been. the right for all to vote. reproductive rights. the rights of immigrant families. the right to equal justice for black, brown and lgbtq+ folks. the time to act to protect our rights is now. that's why i'm hoping you'll join me today in supporting the american civil liberties union. it's easy to make a difference. just call or go online now and become an aclu guardian of liberty. all it takes is just $19 a month. only $0.63 a day. your monthly support will make you part of the movement
to protect the rights of all people, including the fundamental right to vote. states are passing laws that would suppress the right to vote. we are going backwards. but the aclu can't do this important work without the support of people like you. you can help ensure liberty and justice for all and make sure that every vote is counted. so please call the aclu now or go to my aclu.org and join us. when you use your credit card, you'll receive this special we the people t-shirt and much more. toshowyou're a part of the movement to protect the rights guaranteed to all of us by the us constitution. we protect everyone's rights, the freedom of religion, the freedom of expression, racial justice, lgbtq rights, the rights of the disabled. we are here for everyone. it is more important than ever to take a stand. so please join us today. because we the people means all the people, including you.
so call now or go online to my aclu.org to become a guardian of liberty. my frequent heartburn had me taking antacid after antacid all day long but with prilosec otc just one pill a day blocks heartburn for a full 24 hours. for one and done heartburn relief, prilosec otc. one pill a day, 24 hours, zero heartburn.   this was a ceremony today, a relen kwishment for the commandant of the united states marine corps. he's retiring but just relen
kwishing his job because there's nobody to hand it over to. no commandant to take his place, which leads the marine corps without a senate approved leader for the first time in 150 years. that's thanks to republican abortion bans. what? yeah, alabama republican senator tommy tuberville for months has been single handedly blocking the promotions of all high ranking generals and admirals including service chiefs. tuberville says he'll continue to block all military promotions no matter the harm until the pentagon agrees to make it harder for women service members to get abortions. he says there's too many abortion rights if you are serving your country in america, and he wants that to end. this is the kind of thing that you think would be prohibitively unpopular. a republican senator screwing over the marine corps, hundreds of high ranking military
officers, hobbling parts of the u.s. armed forces so he can take rights away from service members. but the republicans cannot help themselves. they are so devoted to the abortion issue that they are doing wildly ridiculously unpopular things in service of that obsession. tomorrow, for instance, in the state of iowa, republicans will convene a very rare special session of the legislature, just to pass a strict new abortion ban even though 70% of women in iowa are against it. as difficult as all of the politics are around this issue, we're not the only ones to have gone through something like this. i have this new podcast calledrachelmaddowpresents deja news. we have a new episode about another country that has gone through the same political transformation as we have on this issue.
a newly mounted government used their new control of the judiciary to get abortion banned, even those most of the people in the country don't want that. and that country, they too, are experiencing the same thing that we are now, now that we've lived a year without abortion rights protections. the nation of poland has also seen a huge spike in support for abortion rights just like we have. a huge political backlash against the government that banned abortion, just like we have. poland has actually seen the largest protests that country has seen in decades all sparked by their conservatives banning abortion. so this episode of deja news it may be sort of here to help in terms of understanding what may be coming up for us next as we grapple the new politics of abortion in this country. it's free to listen. you can scan the little qr code on the bottom right of your screen with your cell phone camera, that will take you right to it. or find us at
msnbc.com/dejanews, or search for it wherever you get your podcasts. it's calledrachelmaddowpresents deja news. all right. we'll be right back. deja news all right. we'll be right back. that's my boy. presents deja news. all right. we'll be right back. ow presents deja news all right. we'll be right back. all right. we'll be right back. reeways! all right. we'll be right back. liberty. liberty. ♪ hi, i'm john and i'm from dallas, texas. my wife's name is joy. we've been married 45 years. i'm taking a two-year business course. i've been studying a lot. i've been producing and directing for over 50 years. it's a very detailed thing and the pressure's all on me. i noticed i really wasn't quite as sharp as i was. my boss told me about prevagen and i started taking it. i feel sharper. my memory's a lot better. it just works. prevagen. at stores everywhere without a prescription.

with a majority of my patience with sensitivity, i see irritated gums and weak enamel. sensodyne sensitivity gum & enamel relieves sensitivity, helps restore gum health, and rehardens enamel. i'm a big advocate of recommending things that i know work. sleepovers just aren't what they used to be. a house full of screens? basically no hiccups? you guys have no idea how good you've got it. how old are you? like, 80? back in my day, it was scary stories and flashlights. we don't get scared. oh, really? mom can see your search history. that's what i thought. introducing the next generation 10g network. only from xfinity. all right, that's gonna do it
for us tonight. thank you for being here with us, now it is time for the last word with lawrence o'donnell. >> i am sure, i am now absolutely sure that i am going to see, someday soon, deja news. it is just the perfect boat name and i'm just going to see it floating by, somewhere. you better get to it quick or else it is going to be taken. you better grab it. >> the best boat name i have ever seen, i