be a kind of wait and see. and i think that i can get, certainly from his perspective, he would like to continue with what he said multiple times. he intends to do the work that the people of long island elected him to do. and how much these investigations will come into a distraction. we are meant to be seen. >> yes, i believe what he said, and i'm quoting this from memory that it would be a waste for someone with his many years in finance to not be on the financial services committee. >> grace ashford, thank you so much for your time tonight. >> thank you chris. >> that is all in on this monday night. therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. good eveningrachel. >> good evening chris, great to see you my friend. thank you very much. much appreciated. and thanks to at-home for joining us this hour. happy to have you here. lots of news of all kinds going on right now. in in on right now california, the monsoon style rain there's have literally 10 periods of the entire u.s. population living under a flood watch right now. the population of california is so big that when 90% of
californians are under a flood watch as they are tonight, that's 10% of the whole u.s. population n this succession of extremely wet storms, the north central coast of california has been particularly hard hit cu already. but now with additional storms, still coming, there are all kinds of northern california rivers that don't usually flood that are looking now luke they are going to flood. these are places where there just are not a lot of flood mitigation systems because they're rivers that don't usually flood. there is not a lt of local inland flooding. so it is bad tonight in a lot of california with more rain and more storms set to arrive over the next few days. keeping eyes on that as everybody else in the country. in new mexico tonight, this is interesting story. albuquerque police just held a press conference tonightce to
announce a development in the recent shootings that have targeted the homes and offices of at least a half dozen new mexicolf elected officials all members of the democratic party. these shootings in new mexico have hit buildings, not people, but they apparently all been targeted at democratic politicians over the last several weeks. tonight albuquerque police announced that they have a suspect in custody who they believe may be connected to the shootings. they say he's a man under the age of 50. they say he's actually in custody on different charges unrelated to the shootings but they believe he's connected to the shootings targeting democrats including the incoming new mexico speaker of the house. police also said at the press conference they recovered a firearm, a gun, that they believe was used in at least one of these shootings targeting new mexico democratic lawmakers. again that, news just breaking tonight. we'll let you know more as we
learn more. >> in georgia, all eyes on the prosecutor's office in fulton county. special grand jury has now concluded its work after eight months of reviewing the evidence and hearing testimony from dozens of witnesses. the special grand jury convened in fulton county today gave the fulton county prosecutors office their recommendations on whether criminal charges should be brought against people who participated in efforts to falsify the results of the presidential electionth in geora in 2020. we're going to have more on this coming up this hour. obviously, this is a fraught and potentially historic undertaking. never before in the history of the united states has ath forme president been charged with a crime. but that is a possibility for former president trump in this georgia investigation. the report of the special grand jury there is in. the report of the special grand jury is not public. we're not sure when it will be made public. but the prosecutors office has that report in house and can
make their recommendation -- excuse me, can make their decisions based on the recommendations. at this point whenever they see fit. again, we'll have more onfi thi ahead over the course of this hour tonight. including what this milestone means in terms of when we can expect to know about decisions made by that fulton county, georgia, prosecutor, as to whether or not she's going to bring potential criminal charges and against whom. again, more to come on that tonight. potentially a very big deal out ofry georgia tonight. in washington, d.c., tonight there is a lot going on. after a post midnight vote on friday night, kevin mccarthy is finally elected to be speaker of the house. a duelly elected speaker of the house is one of the two things you need in order to have a functioning house of representatives. the other thing you need is for the house to agree on the rules by which it will do its work.it well, that vote on the rules was tonight. it was more fraught than usual
given all the side agreement that's kevin mccarthy had to make with pro trump headliners to get this speakership settled the we'll be checking in on that as well. including what republicans in the house may be trying to do in thato body to try to protect former trump there was a brief flurry of excitement on the right this afternoon when cbs news was first to report that the u.s. justice department started investigating the discovery of classified documents found at a think tank called the penn biden center. this is his office after serving as vice president in the obama administration. he vacated office there's when declared the run for president in 2020. but the penn biden center is the biden home inhe d.c. in terms o his work/life out of office.
on november 2nd, lawyers for president biden, lawyers who work for him, his personal capacity, were reportedly packing up some of the office space that the vice president used at the penn biden center. in so doing, they found classified documents there, classified documents they say were in a locked closet inside those offices mixed in with some nonclassified documents. this is, of course, a weird set of circumstances. that's what they say happened. the white houset since confirm the basics of this account as have other news organizations. the reason this created excitement on the right briefly tonight is that it immediately created a perceived what aboutism defense for president trump. president trump is under federal criminal investigation for apparently deliberately hoarding hundreds of classified documents at had his home in florida including hrefusing to hand th over after national archives
told them he had to, even after they subpoenaed him to get the documents. brief excitement on the right tonight. they thought they had ath new defense. oh, supposedly so bad what trump did but look, joe biden is just as bad. why aren't they serving search warrants on president biden the way they did on former donald trump? a brief flurry of excitement about this prospect when this news p broke about the penn bid center. the reasonbi only a brief flurr of excitement is because in president biden's case, he and his lawyers appear to have actually done the right thing when it comes to the classified documents. biden's lawyers say they discovered the documents among his vice-presidential papers at his office at the penn biden center onid november 2nd. the white house counsel's office notified the archives that same day. they did not even know the documents were missing and had not beenhe seeking their return.
the archives took custody of the material the following morning. that appears to be it. attorney general merrick garland asked one of the last remaining trump appointed u.s. attorneys to review the discovery of the documents at the penn biden center. the white house says it is cooperating fully with the national archives and with the department of justice on the review. and again, this was not as it was in trump's case, the archives c desperately seeking e return of materials that trump was blowing off. and trump was blowing off the requests. and then ultimately blowing off the subpoena to return all the documents. these appear to have been document that's were inadvertently held at the center and discovered by the attorneys. they notified white house which notified the archives that they were in the wrong heplace. they moved immediately to retrieve them. that appears to be the sum total
of it s at least as far as we know. again, the white house says they are cooperating fully with the archives and with the justice department on reviewing this situation. again, we'll bring youis more o this if we learn more about it tonight. the brief euphoria on the right that o this would somehow, you know, exonerate trump by what aboutism, it's already turning into a bit of a hangover because of the stark contrast between the actions of the current president and the former guy when it comes to classified material.   when it comes to law and accountability and presidents and former presidents, this is actually what i've p been stuckn all onday. this was arizona, april 20th, 2020. right-wing protesters, lots of whom had guns. stormed the governor's office in arizona. the executive tower in phoenix. the arizona governor has his
offices. april 20th, 2020. this was michigan ten days later, aprilte 30th, 2020. right-wing protesters storming into the michigan state capitol. former president responded to that action saying these are very good people. this was a few months after that, august f 2020. right-wing protesters shoved past police and forced into the idahofo stay capitol in boise. breaking windows along the way. the republican state house speaker in idaho actually ordered that the crowd be allowed in after they initially forced their way past police. he said he feared what other violence would break out if police tried to hold the line against this armed crowd. this was just a few months later. november. november 7, 2020. right-wing protestersshowup in big numbers. heavily armed. at the pennsylvania state capitol. this was two weeks after that in
virginia, right wing protestersshowup in march in military formation conspicuously armed at the state capital city of richmond, virginia. do we have the richmond images there? that was richmond, virginia. this wasd, two weeks after that. right-wing armed protesters showed up at the house of michigan o secretary of state benson. this was a week after that. right-wing armed protesters showing up in georgia at the georgia state capitol. demanding a citizens tribunal in which they saida they wanted t do citizens trials and presumably citizens punishment for elected officials they were threatening over thefi georgia election results. this was less than two weeks after that. rig wing armed protesters showing up at the oregon state capitol. they sprayed bear mace. they shattered glass doors. all of the incidents happened in 2020.
that is ats partial list from tt year alone. that doesn't cover the whole year. t this was just april to december andto not including all of them. but all of those things, all of the right-wing violent mostly armed incursions happened before january 6. before the big 1,000 strong attack on the u.s. congress in the first week of january '21. however surprised we might have been as a country when that happened in january 2021, the american right-wing had been showing us r for months all ove the country that that's the way they plan to operate from here on out. in 2020, they sent armed mobs out to government sights in michigan, in idaho, in pennsylvania, in oregon, in arizona, in georgia, you name it. and they sent them into state capitols. they sent them to the offices of officials, they sent them to the homes t of statewide officials, always with guns. always with force.
and now even as the national expression of this tactic in c washington, d.c., january 6, 2021, even as that has been successfully adjudicated in federal court as an act of sedition and as upwards of 1,000 people criminally charged for their participation in again the national version of this tactic from january 6, 2021, now we're starting to see how this looks when this american right-wing tactic gets translated into foreign languages and foreign countries. it wasua last month when german police arrested more than two dozen people who they say were planning same lar -- similar armed attack. one former member of parliament was among those arrested. it wasg thought that her acces to the parliament building as a former member might have been used to get these armed
attackers inside on the day of theda planned assault. now this month, it's brazil. where trump right-wing lost his bid for re-election in october. the time frame is almost exactly the same from when trump lost re-election in early november 2020 and then his supporters attacked the u.s. capitol the first week of january. he lost re-election the last day of october and now his supporters have attacked the national capitol the first week of january as well. bolsanaro said in advance of the presidential election that the election wasen rigged. the only way he could lose is through fraud. like trump, bolsanaro said he would only accept the election if he won. like trump, bolsanaro then lost and then he refused to concede. he also refused to go to his successor's inauguration just like trump did. when bolsanaro supporters
attacked the capitol yesterday, it's like watching a southern hemisphere summer perform abc of -- performance of the january 6 attack. so similar to what happened here. and the mob attacked journalists and stole and smashed journalist equipment just as the pro trump mob did. they used police barricades as rams, they attacked police officers. they ransacked the offices, they took selfies and posed. just like trump did, bolsanaro waited hours quietly. he called for peace once they
regained control. they started claiming it wasn't them who attacked the capitol, it was bad guys, left wingers, it was criminals dressed up like bolsanaro supporters. they trashed the capitol. the parallels are so tight. it's almost stupid. it almost just seems like reading the same script in a different language. and seeing english language hash tags trending online about the attacks, seeing english language signs at the attack in a country where they speak portuguese, you wonder if this was inspired by what happened here inpi a viole government overthrow attempt. there are also important differences. in brazil, theyso arrested peop on the day of the attack.
more than 1,000 people arrested yesterday, unlike our own capitole attack on january 6 i which almost no one was arrested until well after it was all over and most of the attackers had gone home. brazil's case, they got more than 1,000 people in custody today. and also many brazil's case, they launched this a week after the transferhe of power happene not before the transfer of power happened with the trump supportersed in d.c. because the new president of brazil has already been sworn in and bolsanaro is an expresident, that has applications for the former president and whether he'll be heldfo responsible for what his followers just did. bolsanaro is in florida right now. since the day he left office, he's been staying weird at a mcmansion near disney world which he rented from a mixed martial arts fighter. okay. the state department spent today
fending off requests from t reporters about whatin exactly bolsanaro is doing here. he is here to avoid prosecution on the investigations he is facing in brazil? the state department is saying what kind of visa is he on? what charges will efface? and brazil asked the united states to extradite him to face trial there. we're also learning that even more weirdly the official in the brazilian government who is the security chief specifically responsible for security in brazil, in their national capitol, he was also in florida at the time the attack on the capitol happened this weekend. he has since been fired from the brazilian government as of today. what was he doing in florida when the attack took place? why is he still there now? so we've got a lot going on in the news right now.
the new congress finally getting seated in a process more chaotic than before the sufficiently rf war. we have the possible prosecution of our immediate former president looming given multiple active criminal investigations of him in multiple jurisdictions including one that appears to be getting quite close to ripe in the state ofit georgia and some that allies in washington seem bent on trying to disrupt or block if they can do so. we have yet appears to be more politicized violence. we have six members of the same political party all apparently having their homesal and office shot up in new mexico. again, police n announcing tonit for the first time they have someone in custody who they believe may be connected to the shootings. we've got president biden at the southern border contending with the immigration and the critics and logistics. we've got record breaking extreme weather again this time
on the west coast but asking next week it will be somewhere else. s record breaking once in a century extreme weather is a weekly occurrence in the united states. cc lot going on. we have a lot of challenges. but on top of it all, we need to contend with the fact that at least florida appears to be developing as a refuge for would-be dictators for whom the violent efforts of f the supporters were not enough to keep them in power. florida is apparently lousy with that usoverripe fruit right now. and we need to contend with the fact that whether or not the world still sees us as a beacon of democracy, a city on the hill. the far right around the world sees oure far right as a model for violent mass attack against the institutions of government. as americans, we take great pride in leading the world in lots of things. we do not take great pride in this. joining us nowde is timothy snyder, professor of history at yale university. he is the author of, among many
books, a best seller "on tyrann" it's a pleasure. it's been too long. thank you for joining us. >> gladan to be with you. >> in terms of how tyranny works and how authoritarianism works, i'm a little worried that i've seen this through too an american lens and this american precedent for the sort of thing we saw ine brazil this weekend. should i be looking at this with a wider and more international lens? this is the sort of thing that authoritarian movements and far right movementsn do all the ti? this shouldn't t echo january 6 so much as we should see it as a typical right-wing facist pro authoritarian tactic that people use all over the world? >> well, i think you're right to point to the evidence similarities between january e and january 8. i think both january 6 and 8 as you suggest are about larger
trends, too. one of them is to discredit institutions. when you storm institutions, when youshowyou can make yourself physically present and trash the place, what you're showing is symbolically, physically that institutions don't lymatter. whatt matters is force. what matters is will.te and that, of course, is one of the oldest, one of the classic anti-democratic or anti-rule of law moves. youshowdisrespect for the institutions physically. and then all that seems to be left is the possibility that a person, a strong man, something besides these institutions should be running the country. if we can humiliate the institutions, then we get the strong men. that's a logic on display in brazil and the a u.s. and then likewise, a lie.ik an alternative reality. a strong leaf among lots of people that what happened is noe what happened. that we didn't really lose the vote. we really won the vote. that is common between january 6
and january 8. it is also a big 20th century, 21st century phenomenon. big lies which capture lots of people. but with the recent twist, i think this r is true about braz and the u.s., social media bubbles whichs. allow this to happen. i think there is an odd way in which the people storming the buildings are s emerging from alternative reality into real reality as they do it. and they're sure they're right. they're not hearing any other voices in the social media reality where they live. >> in terms of contending with the kind of tactical power of the things that you're describing, in terms of standing up for democracy, trying to protectcy democracy against the forces and attacks, how much does it matter that there is swift accountability for the people who participate in it and the people who organize it? one of the differences between january 8 and brazil, january 6 and the united states is that we saw a lot of arrests in brazil and that we've got a sitting
president who is the a successo to bolsanaro saying those who participated inos this will be held accountable swiftly and surely. what role does accountability play in fending this off as a tactic against democracy? >> yeah. the comparison is absolutely right. i'm very pleased for the brazilian government that they were able to react so quickly. it's very important that people who tryer to carry out this kin of facist move are aware that the law also has force beside it. one thing they're trying to do is monopolize force themselves.l they're trying to say we're the ones who control violence. we intimidate you. went intimidate the law. we're going to do something so strange and confusing and violent that you won't know how to react it to. there was bate of that in the u.s. on january 6. strange and u.unexpected and violent that the criminals just walked away from the crime
scene. that's odd. we didn't see that in brazil today. it's really important, it's really important because things like this,se they're kind of a test of force. the people who are on the far right, that's what they believe in. they believe in force. if they don't meet any force on the other end, then they're going to continue. that doesn't mean that peopleey who are defending law should be unpredictable. that means they should be predictable. that means they should be confident that something like this is a crime and that pictures like the ones we're seeing where if l you commit a crime you go and destroy property you might just endes u on a bus handcuffed. that's normal. the democracy -- the story that facists always tell is democracies are weak, they won't fight back, they're flabby. i think it's important for democracies to say, no, we stand for something. that is something we stand for is law. >> i think that point that you just made, ttoo, is very important about how there is a tactical impact to seeming unpredictable chaotic weird,
strange and that treating these things as crimes among other things and, you know, and accountability isan an importan part of important concept, it hasn't rationalizing the experience of what the country has been through and imposing order and also a framework of understanding this is a crime. this is something that exists within our system. it does not destroy our system. our system itself can handle things like hathis. i think that's -- that rationalizing force is an important insight. >> yeah. a and we're all equal before the law. that we're all equal before the law. any of us does something like this, it's very -- i mean you are asking directly about trump. it's veryec important for democracy not to have these super heroes and super villains judged andil it's important tha executives be subject to the rule ofiv law. once you start developing a
legal theory of exceptional people, that loophole will grow bigger and bigger all the time. >> timothy snyder, professor of history at yale university, author of, among many other books, "on tyranny: 20 lessons from the 20th century," mandatory reading you should do before watching myshowin any regular way. good to see you. >> thank you.se >> all right. much more to get to tonight. y>t much more to get to tonight.



republicans had two things to get done in order to set up a functioning congress, the first was electing speaker of the house. that took them almost a whole week and 15 humiliating tries before they finally elected kevin mccarthy speaker just barely, just after midnight on friday night. that was item one. the second item on their short list went much more quickly. tonight on a party line vote republicans in the house voted for the rules by which they will run the house now that they're in charge.
this is rules for how bills get to the floor, how they vote the on, amended, so on. and you likely heard by now that mccarthy had to agree to lots of rules changes in order to get the speaker's job. well those rules changes are now in effect because of the vote tonight. mccarthy had to agree to a rule that allows any one member of congress to call for a vote that could oust him as speaker. that received a lot of attention because it sounds dramatic. they can vote any moment to replace him. and honestly, it could end up being very dramatic if hard line republicans decide they're lacking in chaos and want to use that new rule to get more chaos because it makes them, i don't know, entertained. honestly though, i think this one is likely to be more of a paper tiger than a real threat. i say that because congress is operated under this exact rule before. actually operated under this rule for decades. and the house got along just fine with that rule in place.
you never know. things are only unprecedented until they happen. but we'll see. i think that will change despite the attention it had may be more of a symbolic threat than a real threat. moving up the line in terms of real things to worry about, there is also the republican agreement to cap all federal spending at levels set two years ago. now one could conceivably have big consequences for the federal budget and therefore for the operations of the u.s. government including the military. but that's only if they hold themselves to it. this spending cap arrangement is basically a hand shake deal not a binding rule. there is nothing holding republicans to actually following that rule. but again, so that is sort of one to watch. but they could get out of it if they wanted to. changes like those ones received a lot of attention so far. there is another provision in this deal though that i think is kind of a sleeper that i think is worth more attention than it
received so far, the provision, the rule packets that republicans are agreeing to which would create a committee to investigate they call the weaponization of the federal government. this expected to be chaired by jim jordan. they would have the power to oversee not just the justice department and fbi the way they're usually overseen by congress, they claim this committee would have the ability to oversee on going criminal investigations being conducted by the justice department. on going criminal investigations like, say, the on going criminal investigations into the january 6 attack or the on going criminal investigations into former president donald trump. one member of congress says he should be considered for a spot on this committee is scott perry, a trump republican whose phone was recently seized by the justice department as part of their investigation into the january 6 attack. this one as i say i think is the
sleeper. if republicans do go through with this committee to try to create a new system of oversight of the justice department that includes their on going criminal investigations, i mean, we can't expect the justice department wouldn't just roll over and go along it with. we can expect the justice department would presumably go to court if need be to protect their investigations. but what would happen then? what would happen if two branches of government went to war over active criminal investigations into a former president that could potentially put him in prison? what if it gets left to the pro trump conservative super majority on the supreme court to settle that conflict? as i said, the rules changes, we'll see how they play out in terms of which pose the most serious threats to sort of regular order and normal small democratic governance. but this effort to try to get members of congress into the criminal justice system in this
specific way, that's by my bet really the one to watch. lots more to get to tonight. stay with us. ay with us name the device... the telephone! turns out moms are always right, and it turns out the general is a quality insurance company that's been saving people money for nearly 60 years. for a great low rate, and nearly 60 years of quality coverage - go with the general. we planned well for retirement, but i wish we had more cash. you think those two have any idea? that they can sell their life insurance policy for cash? so they're basically sitting on a goldmine? i don't think they have a clue. that's crazy! well, not everyone knows coventry's helped thousands of people sell their policies for cash. even term policies. i can't believe they're just sitting up there! sitting on all this cash. if you own a life insurance policy of $100,000 or more, you can sell all or part of it to coventry. even a term policy. for cash, or a combination of cash and coverage, with no future premiums. someone needs to tell them, that they're
sitting on a goldmine, and you have no idea! hey, guys! you're sitting on a goldmine! come on, guys! do you hear that? i don't hear anything anymore. find out if you're sitting on a goldmine. call coventry direct today at the number on your screen, or visit coventrydirect.com.

flu symptoms hit harder than the common cold. so it takes the right tool for the job... to keep it together. now there's new theraflu flu relief with a max strength fever fighting formula. the right tool for long lasting flu symptom relief. hot beats flu.
♪ every search you make ♪ ♪ every click you take ♪ ♪ i'll be watching you ♪ - [narrator] the internet doesn't have to be so creepy, the duckduckgo app, lets you search and browse pria blocking most trackers all forf your search history is never tracked, so it can't be shared. and when you leave search, duckduckgo helps keep companies from watching you as you brows. join tens of millions of people making the easy switch by downloading the app today. duckduckgo, privacy simplified.   after eight months of work, the special grand jury in fulton county, georgia, finished its work. it was impanelled to review evidence and hear testimony to
pressure election officials in the state of georgia and falsify the election results in georgia after the 2020 presidential election. now as i said the special grand jury has been at work for eight months. what they were working toward was not a set of indictments or any sort of other sort of public facing action or action taken in court that we could all witness. what they were working toward over those eight months was a report. a report to the fulton county prosecutor summarizing their findings in terms of the evidence and recommending whether or not they believe criminal charges should be filed against anyone based on the findings. we don't know if that report will be made public. the judge notes in the disorder dissolving the panel that special grand jury wants the report to be made public. but the final decision will ultimately be made by that judge. he set a hearing on that issue for two weeks from tomorrow.
but while the report has not yet been made public, we don't know at what level or on what time frame it will be made public, fulton county district willis and her office, they have the report themselves right now. and there is no reason they can't act on the special grand jury's recommendations to them now. da is free to act on the recommendations regardless of what we can see now or in the future in terms of the special grand jury's report. whether she'll take them to a regular grand jury to seek an indictment is yet to be seen f she does that, whether such an indictment will include former president donald trump which would make history because no u.s. president or former president has ever before been charged with a crime, that remains to be seen. we do know that it's in the da's hands now. joining us now is michael moore. he is former u.s. attorney for the middle district of georgia. really appreciate you being here tonight. thank you for being here. >> it's a pleasure to be with you. thank you.
>> first, let me ask if i explained that correctly. the special grand jury, the aim of their investigation over the past eight months has been the report that they have submitted as of today. their work is done. they're dissolved as an entity and the juries go home? >> that's exactly right. remember this grand jury had no authority to issue an indictment even if the d.a. had asked for one. this was simply a chance for her to use the grand jury process a little different than we typically do in state grand juries here in georgia but it allowed her to use the grand jury process to subpoena witnesses and evidence to get folks on the record, witness who's may be reluctant to get their testimony to investigate the case more fully. you just don't see the cases very often. that's what really separates federal grand jury who's have, you know, inherently investigated powers with the state grand jury system. so now she'll make a decision whether or not she thinks that there's sufficient evidence and whether or not this special grand jury found probable cause
for her to move forward and ask a criminal grand jury to seek an indictment against trump or somebody else. >> and in terms of what we the public are going to see about this process, it's -- i was a little confused trying to figure out if there is any relationship between the decision about how much of the special grand jury's report might be made public and fony willis' decision whether or not she's going to bring any indictments. are they totally separate tracks that don't have anything to do with each other or any relationship between the two considerations? >> they're unique and separate tracks. i mean the district by and large acts as counsel so the grand jury. it's likely she and her staff helped write this report. they certainly know what's in it. you're right she can move forward and decided to do that. the idea typically with a grand jury is the process is secret. en that is because people who ultimately are not charged, if she makes a decision not to charge, it doesn't ruin the rest
of their life because there is some record, something they may or may not have done or said in a public report somewhere. so the idea that the report coming out is something the judge has to decide even though the special grand jury has recommended that. he'll make a decision on whether or not that's appropriate at this time. it's a little unusual because georgia typically investigative reports this type of information does not become public. because we have an open records act. one of the exceptions to having open records is an on going criminal prosecution. if she's going to move forward with a grand jury, that may be a reason he keeps the record sealed for some time. that also helps her. she's got a little bit of a double edge sword here and she may want the report out for political cover. at the same time, she may be making a decision not to exactly follow the recommendations of special grand jury. if she makes that decision, she'll have to answer for her choice versus what the special purpose grand jury had recommended after their eight months or so of work.
>> in terms of waiting for a decision from fony willis though, doesn't sound like anything happening in court is gone to constrain her in terms of time frame. she'll make her decision in her office now as to whether or not she thinks an indictment is appropriate given these recommendations, given everything else her office knows about the evidence here. and she's basically free to do that on her own time frame, right? barring statute of limitations concerns, she can act at any point, yes? >> she's absolutely free. she wanted to call in a grand jury tomorrow, they could do it. she's been free all along. she's never had to use the special purpose grand jury to get an indictment. she can just run this right through the regular criminal process, go into a criminal grand jury and ask them to issue an indictment. but what she did is she gathered more information. so she could read the report. she could have decided and already had the indictments drafted that she wanted even before this report came out. but she's under no obligation at this time to wait. so if in the regular course of buzz one of the criminal jand
grand juries is meeting and wants to sandwich trump in between a carjacker and drug dealer, whatever she wants to do, she can do. that grand jury will make a decision on whether or not there is probable cause to move forward. this is the beginning of a normal criminal process. so much of this has been abnormal. so much about that administration was abnormal. but this is the beginning of a routine criminal process. he looks at his or her case and then makes a decision oren whether or not they're going to present evidence to a grand jury so they can move forward to a trial. that is really where we are right now. we're at the start of the race. this is not the -- we're not near the finish line. >> michael moore, former u.s. attorney for the middle district of georgia. i know today is an all hands on deck today, an all hands on deck holiday for georgia. thank you for your time. i appreciate your time, particularly tonight. >> great pleasure to be with you. thank you. >> thank you, sir. >> all right. more news ahead, stay with us. it more news ahead, stay with us.

ah, these bills are crazy. she has no idea she's sitting on a goldmine. well she doesn't
know that if she owns a life insurance policy of $100,000 or more she can sell all or part of it to coventry for cash. even a term policy. even a term policy? even a term policy! find out if you're sitting on a goldmine. call coventry direct today at the number on your screen, or visit coventrydirect.com.

when attorney general merrick garland appoint aid special counsel to oversee federal criminal investigations relating to former president donald trump, one of the first things garland did was -- excuse me, one of the if i ever things special counsel jack smith did is issue subpoenas to election officials in states where trump tried to overturn the 2020 election results. the subpoenas appeared to be aimed at trump's fake elector scheme. the scheme by which they had people sign forged documents
sending that trump won the states even though he dent. one special council jack smith finishes the investigation and makes a decision on charges, if any, will find out whether there is any federal criminal consequences for the fake elector's themselves for the people who signed those forged papers in seven states around the country. but federal charges aren't the only possibility here. we know, for example, that the fake electors from georgia have been targeted of the fulton county district attorney's investigation. now that her special grand jury wrapped you the work today, we may find out whether district attorney willis will pursue indictments under georgia state criminal law against those fake electors in that state. of the seven states in which these slates of electsors will put forward no, georgia was the only one, the only state where we knew of an active state level criminal investigation into what the electors did. it had been the only one.
until now. it got kind of lost in the drama of the chaotic house speaker votes late last week. but the attorney general in the state of michigan just quietly made some kind of big news. she announced on friday that her office, the michigan state attorney general's office is reopening its criminal investigation into the michigan fake trump electors. michigan attorney general announced a year ago her office had started an investigation into the fake electors. she believed that crimes had been committed. she also said at the same time that she was going to refer the case to federal prosecutors because she saw what the fake electors in her state did as part of a multistate conspiracy that would be better handled by the feds. that announcement from attorney general was a year ago. now a year later, she's basically significant she's done waiting for the feds to act. now that the january 6 investigation released the final report with lots of new information about the fake elector scheme, attorney general
says she is not going to wait any longer. she's going to reopen her state investigation into michigan's fake electors. she says she doesn't know what the federal justice department plans to do with the evidence that her office referred to them but there is just clear evidence to support charges against those 16 false electors in our state. now as attorney general says we don't know the status of the federal investigation and whether any of the fake electors face any legal consequences there at the federal level. but now we know it is at least two states, georgia and michigan, where we're waiting on potential state charges for the fake electors in that state. watch this space. this space (tony hawk) skating for over 45 years has taken a toll on my body. i take qunol turmeric because it helps with healthy joints and inflammation support. why qunol? it has superior absorption compared to regular turmeric. qunol. the brand i trust.
♪ ♪ ♪♪ voltaren. the joy of movement. ♪♪ it's time for our lowest prices of the season on the sleep number 360 smart bed.
science proves quality sleep is vital to your mental, emotional, and physical health. voltaren. the joy of movement. the sleep number 360 smart bed. it's temperature balancing, so you stay cool. it senses your movements and automatically adjusts to help keep you both comfortable all night. our smart sleepers get 28 minutes more restful sleep per night. the queen sleep number 360 c2 smart bed is only $899 save $200. and free home delivery when you add an adjustable base.ends monday
are prostate concerns keeping you awake? force factor prostate helps reduce nighttime bathroom trips and promote a normal prostate size. "i feel like myself again." rush to walmart for force factor prostate, from the #1 fastest-growing men's health brand in america. i screwed up. mhm. i got us t-mobile home internet. now cell phone users have priority over us. and your marriage survived that? you can almost feel the drag when people walk by with their phones. oh i can't hear you... you're froze-- ladies, please! you put it on airplane mode when you pass our house. i was trying to work. we're workin' it too.
yeah! work it girl! woo! i want to hear you say it out loud. well, i could switch us to xfinity. those smiles. that's why i do what i do. that and the paycheck.   one last thing to mention before we go, one thing to keep an eye on in the news this week, the justice department has already achieved convictions on seditious conspiracy related to january 6.
that's a very hard conviction to get historically. but they got it in the oath keeper's case. there is now more people facing the same charges, namely, members of the proud boys. their trial expected to start tomorrow in federal court in d.c. we have just learned that it's not going to start tomorrow. instead that, trial will be delayed for a day. it won't start until wednesday. because one of the defense attorneys for the proud boys just got his law license suspended. and so the judge in the proud boys case decided to postpone the startst trial by one day to give the proud boys a chance to find a lawyer with an active law license. a little -- matters like that gumming up the works in the most unexpected ways. opening statements expected to be wednesday. the trial is expected to last a month. we'll keep you posted. "way too early" is up next.   these charges are the ones that can stick because regardless