i am going to take a deep breath and smile for this one. the last thing before we go tonight. the man's world's fastest man, noah lyles, one gold yesterday in a close photo finish. i close, we mean ridiculously close. he beat his opponent by .005 seconds. most of us can't even blink that click. he is the fastest american to win gold in the men's 100 meters in 20 years. afterward, the olympic champ took to social media with a message that i think is even more fantastic. he said this. i have asthma, allergies, dyslexia, a.d.d., anxiety, and depression. but i will tell you that what you have does not define what you can become. why? why not you? so absolutely extraordinary words from the world's fastest man take us off the air tonight.
if someone in your life needs to see that week? please share it tomorrow. on that note, i wish you an absolutely fabulous night. from all of our colleagues across the networks of nbc news, thanks for staying up late with us. i will see you again tomorrow. joining us this hour. wow, there really is so much going on. and first of all, before we really start tonight, i do just want to note here, please indulge me just for a second. because there has been a ez lugs, a not bad news resolution, to something that we have repeatedly covered on thisshowthat you might not have seen anywhere else. and so i want to sort of settles this matter for you, bring you up to date. so a few different times here on theshowwe have covered what happened to this woman. she was arrested and ultimately tried and convicted and
sentenced to years in prison for the crime of putting tiny little notes on supermarket shelves. putting little notes on store shelves where the price tags usually go. it was basically the tiniest act of protest eimaginable against russia invading one of its neighboring countries and starting a war with ukraine. she used little price tag labels in a russian store. she replaced the existing ones with ones that looked like the real ones, but they had little statistics on them about what was happening in russia's war in ukraine. now, this effort, sort of like an art project and protest effort, it started in countries outside of russia. it started, like for example, in 30 land people did this at a hardware store that decided to expand its operations in russia, even when lots of other companies were pulling out because of the war so. people started doing it outside of russia, but then some very brave people inside russia started doing it too, including this
young woman, this artist in saint petersburg in russia. we covered it here on theshowwhen she was arrested in saint petersburg. we showed you this photo with some of her friends turning up at the police station to bring her her things to try to support her when she was put on trial behind closed doors for, again, this tiniest act of peaceful protest. this was her being brought out of that closed door court hearing the day before they took her off to jail. this youngr woman was ultimatey given a seven-year prison sentence. again, for thear grave crime of posting like two-inch square tiny pieces of paper on store shelves. because they protested the war and told the truth about it. so we covered her story here a few different times. now we can tell you that she was among the russians who president biden got out of prison. among the russian dissidents who president biden was able to get out of prison was this young
woman. when the hostage swap happened last week there, of course, was a lot of attention to evan and paul whelan. you might have even seen news coverage about vladimir, you might have recognized him as arachelmaddowshowviewer. you might have recognized him from thisshow. as a lead ear in the opposition of vladimir putin, he survived two assassination attempts. he won the pulitzer for commentary, and he was at the start of what looked like decades in prison on a treason charge. president biden got him strung. but alexandria, she too is now free and out of russia. thank god. and you know, and thank god there's an american administration in place who was capable of pulling this off,
right? the biggest and most complex hostage swap in generations, possibly ever, involving a half dozen different countries all with different interests and different stakes. the biden/harris administration was able to pull all the necessary strings in exactly the right order, exactly the right times in order to get this miraculous thing done. so anyway, thank you for indulging me on that. any time a guest on thisshowor a person who has been the subject on thisshow-- i feel - the need to say something about it here on thisshow. feels sort of superstitious to let it go unremarked upon, right? so knock on wood, let this never happen again. but they're out. they're out. you might remember when donald trump was president, he had a
call with putin right after one of putin's dictator-style fake elections in russia where he got like 160% of the vote or whatever it was. and trump's staff gave him a card, a note card before that call which said on it in bigt black block all capital letters do not congratulate. and then trump got on the phone with putin and immediately said congratulations on your big election victory. immediately congratulated him. something like that happened again this weekend at trump's rally in georgia. trump brought up the biden/harris administration pulling off this miracle, getting all those americans and those russian dissidents out of putin's prisons in this big hostage negotiation, and trump' immediate ecomment on thatim before his crowd in georgia was to say, quote, congratulations
to vladimir putin on the hostage deal. not for president biden and vice president harris who got it done but congratulations to vladimir putin. do not congratulation, my friend, do congratulate. but of course, he congratulated the russian dictator on the release of evan and paul and all the rest. congratulations to putin. great job, putin. who says this kind of thing? today marks three months exactly from the presidential election. today's august 5th. the election is on september, october, november 5th. three months from today. regardless of what happens in that presidential election, president biden will be president. vice president harris will be vice president for the next five and a half months until the next president is sworn in.
today the white house released this photo of president biden and vice president harris and key cabinet and security officials meeting in the situation room. meeting on the broiling crisis in the middle eeast. israel is warning that theyhe expect retaliation of some kind from iran after the assassination of a hamas official inside iran's capital city. today a number of american personnel, american troops were reported to be injured in a rocket attack on the al assad air base in iraq which is northwest of baghdad, halfway between baghdad and the syrian border. we don't know more about that attack on the al assad air base. we don't knowe if it was a lucy shot or a skilled attack. we don't know if it was iranian-backed militiasw or soe other force. the statement from presidentfr biden that he put out alongside the photo from the situation
room today said, quote, we received updates on threats posed by iran and its proxies. diplomatic efforts toox de-escalate regional tensions and preparations to supportpp israel should it be attacked again. we also discussed the steps we are taking to defend our forces and respond to any attacksp against our personnel in aou manner and place of our choosing. there does appear to have been some attack on american personnel today. we have yet to, again, understand the full scale and import of that attack, let alone the exact nature of the injuries to americans who were said to be hurt in this attack. we certainly do not know what the american response will be to that attack or when it will happen. but we'll let you know more about that tonight as we learn more. so one side of the presidential election is sort of free to campaign and just do that. the other side has to attend to the business of government. so while kamala harris is attending briefings and discussions like this in the
situation room today, vice president harris is alsopr preparing to announce her running mate for the presidential election. this running mate announcement we're told will happen definitely by tomorrow, by tuesday. we're guessing probably some time early in the day, but who knows? and we think we know who the short list is, but who knows. you know, she and her new running mate, whoever that person may be, are due to appear together at a rally tomorrow night in philadelphia. at least is due to hit seven different swing states in five days. in preparation for the running mate announcement and, frankly, making the most of the fact that it hasn't happened yet and there's tons of anticipation asa to who she might pick, the harris campaign today told their supporters that for a $20 donation you can now buy an official kamala harris and running mate yard sign. look at the picture. they've got the name of the running mate covered up withed
tape and question marks. so if that's not how the sign will come, the sign will come harris and then the running mate's name, but we don't know who it is yet. their asking you to buy it sight unseen. obviously, that is very clever. they put out this text message tonight, making the most of the anticipation. it says, quote, hi, it's kamala harris. i know many of you are eager to find out who i will be selecting to join me on the campaign trail and hopefully in the white house as my vice president. though i have not yet made my decision, it is important to me that grassroots supporters like you have direct updates about the state of the race. that's why i want you to be the first to know who i am selecting to serve alongside me as my vice president. add your name to this exclusive list of supporters who will be notified immediately when the news breaks. and since there have been legitimately no leaks and only more or less well informed speculation as to what the choice may be, telling people they'll be the first to know if they sign up on this list to
receive the information by text direct from the campaign, there's a lot of anticipation and people really want to know. and so that is a pretty god way to build a contact list of potential supporters. here at msnbc, i have to tell you, we have precisely zero information about who she's going to pick. lots of people have been contacting me begging me to tell them who vice president harris is going to pick as her running mate. i don't know. i have no -- i have no more idea than you do. but we are pretty sure that we're going to find out tomorrow in advance of tomorrow night's rally in philadelphia. i can tell you for sure that i will be helping anchor our special coverage of the running mate announcement tomorrow, tuesday night, starting at 6:00 p.m. eastern. but again, that does notg mean that i have any kind of a heads up on who she's going to pick or how she is making her choice or when exactly she's going to announce it or how in of us are going to hear about it. ito know as little as you do. it's goingle to be a sleepless a
night tonight for all of us worrying about it. but while we are on the subject of worrying, here's a thing that i think needs to be on the national radar. no matter how you're feeling about the news in general right now or politics in general right now or the stock market or the prospects of vice president harris and her campaign, there is something i feel like needs to be on everybody's radar, and it's just barely starting to be. but we're just getting more and more increasingly strong signals that this is where this whole thing is heading. so i talked about this a little bit last week, got lots and lots of feedback from people that i had upset you, freaked you out, got you worried about something you were otherwise feeling god about. i'm sorry to say, there's more grist for that mill, there's more reason to focus on this. now even more than there was last week. and for this we need to go backb to that georgia rally this
weekend, the one where trump congratulated vladimir putin for president biden getting the hostages released from russian prisons. there were a lot of kind of funny things about that rally. trump complained repeatedly at that rally about the fact that he was addressing a bunch of empty seats in the arena. this was a particularly sore subject, apparently, for him, because just a few days earliera vice president harris had held a rally at the exact same venue. she had the place filled to the rafters. while trump was addressing an there,there was a crowd but there were tons of empty seats, and increasing numbers of empty seats as people steadily filed out while he was stille speaking. and trump kept remarking upon that during the rally. it clearly bothered him that there were so many empty seats. he kept esuggesting there were thousands of people outside the arena desperately trying to get in and there was some conspiracy that the seats were being held open. there were not thousands of people outside trying to get.
in he really just appears to have not been able to keep butts in the seats in the venue. also at that rally, and tell me how this strategy works, trump repeatedly took a bunch of really nasty shots at that rally against the republican governor of georgia, whose name is brian kemp. trump repeatedly and in very sort of vicious terms at that rally criticizing brian kemp,cr who is again the republican governor of that state. criticizing kemp for not having helped him overthrow the election results in georgia in 2020 when trump lost that state to biden. that is a weird way to try to lock up the republican vote in georgia ahead of a hotly contested election, right? tell georgia republicans that they have a terrible republican governor, that they made a terrible choice when they picked that governor. georgia voters after all elected that governor at the same time
they didn't elect donald trump. butn' he's there telling them tt their governor is terrible. and that he's disloyal and he was an awful choice for georgia. what a great way to lock up the republican vote in that state, right? in addition to all that, thougto there was one thing that was not only sort of stranger than that but i think more broadly worrying. i'm going to play you just a little bit of sound from that rally. it's a short piece of sound, i promise. but you're going to hear him say here a few names that you have never heard before. and that's actually what is important about this. so please watch. again, it's a short clip, but this is that same rally in georgia. >> i don't know if you've heard, but the georgia state election board is in a very positive way. thisit is a very positive thing, marjorie. they're on fire. they're doing a great job.
three members. janice johnson. rick jefferies. and janelle king. three people are all pit bulls fighting for honesty, transparency, and victory. they're fighting. are they here? where are they? where are they? where are they? thank you. what a job. thank you. thank you. wow. >> thank you. wow. what a job. where are you. are you here? wow. thank you. these people who trump is shouting out by name, you've never heard any of these names before, right? these people he's shouting out by name, at least one of those people is apparently there at the rally waving back at him and he's acknowledging her. the reason you've never heard of these people is because they have a job that's supposed to be an obscure technocratic job. they are members of the georgia state elections board. he describes them as three pit bulls fighting for victory, and he calls them out by name and he
thanks them and he praises them. and he points out at least one of them who's there in person at the front row of his rally. he says they are doing a great job. they are, quote, fighting for victory. georgia state elections board is not supposed to be the kind of entity that has its members shouted out at a candidate's a rally for all they're doing to ensure the victory of that candidate. right? the state elections board is responsible for administering elections, for, in the words of georgia's state statutes, they're responsible for conducting, quote, fair, legal, and orderly elections for the state of georgia. and here is trump shouting them out by name for all the great work they're doing for him. since the 2020 election in which trump tried mightily and failed to overturn the results of the presidential election in georgia, since a georgia grand
jury indicted him and multiple codefendants on multiple felonies, including rico charge, for trying to overturn the election in contravention of law. georgia republicans have since replaced the membership of the georgia state board of elections so that it's now stocked with election deniers and trump super fans who trump is now shouting out by name at his rallies while they sit in the front row and wave back at him. they have also stocked trump super efans on county election boards throughout the state of georgia and in other swing states as well. but why is that important? these elections officials, why is it important they're election deniers and trump super fans that have been installed since trump tried and failed to overturn the results of the last
election. well, those county elections officials in multiple counties, in multiple swing states since 2020 they have refused to certify local election results dozens of times. the state election board member who is trump shouted out at his rally this weekend, they're pushing through a new rule in the state of georgia that will give any county official at the county elections board level, give them the leeway to refuse to certify election results in that county or at least to delay the certification of election results in that county. why does that matter? no matter how people vote in a particular state, no matter who the most votes in a particular state, election results get tallied locally and then they get certified by even county. and then they get certified at the state level. that's how we get election results from each state. if individual counties, whether they're big counties or small
counties, little rural trumpw cooldowny counties. they won't have official results from every county. it'll stop them from being able to certify statewide results or delay the certification of state wide results. it will serve as propaganda, right? it will serve as sort of smoke to tell the public there must be something wrong in the election, so the election results must be suspect and maybe emergency measure of some kind are going to be necessary. but secondly, it prevents the normal counting of votes. which prevents the normal allocation of electors in the electoral college, which is how we get a president. right? it stops that process. which then does what to the process? it throws it into the courts, maybe. throws it into congress to decide, maybe. republicans may like both of
their chances in both of those places better than they like their chances with voters. >> where are they? thank you. what a job. thank you. thank you. wow. >> wow. what a job, shouting out the state elections board. before the 2020 election and trump trying to overturn the results of that election, it just didn't happen that local election refusals -- local election officials would refuse to certify election results. it just didn't happen. it was unheard of. since the 2020 election, it has become a thing in republican politics. since trump lost that election and then said it was all fraudulent and tried to have it all overturned on the basis of those bogus fraud claim, republican officials are often
refusing to certify or delaying the certification of election results. they've done it more than 25 times in nevada and in pennsylvania and in michigan and in north carolina and in georgia. the list goes on and on. and they're notoe doing it becae there's something wrong that they know of in these elections. they're doing itw toshowtheye not going to certify election results anymore, because they, as election deniers and trump super fans, have gotten ahold of this part of the technocratic process of conducting elections in our country. and they have done that, and they have no intention of certifying election results, not because they think there's anything wrong with the way the election was conducted but because they don't think elections are a good way to do things. today we just posted the last episode, episode eight, the finale episode of this podcast i've been working on far long time that's called ultra.
today was the finale of the second season. second season of ultra is about americans in the late '40s and '50s who were involved in really, really radical anti-democratic organizations and movements, including some of whom were tied up with the nazis in germany, and those americans ended up getting sort of tapped, basically brought into american electoral politics. and the result was explosive and terrible and very dangerous for our democracy. and among other things, it led to a plot very much like what trump and his supporters tried to pull off on january 6th. it led to a very similar plot to dispute the election results in multi-states, to stop the normal tallying of the votes. to stop the normal tallying of the electoral vote because republicans thought they could seize control of the government even without winning the election. it has happened before, which is
why i wanted to do this podcast. because it is helpful to me at least to get my head around the fact that americans have had to contend with things like this before. so you know, if you've been waiting until all eight episodes of ultra were out before you started listening because youd don't want to wait between t episodes, you want to binge them all, you can do that. the final episode of ultra season two posted today. but for me, the reason i wanted to do this project in the first place is because i do think it helps us get our heads around what is happening today. the american system of government is not perfect, but it was a hard system to get, ant it has been repeatedly hard to hold on to when american who is don't want this as our system of government have repeatedly tilted against it. they've made clear that they would prefer the kind of system they have, say, in russia or that they had in germany in the '30s, or somewhere else with
authoritarian leaders. there have over time always been a subset of american who is would prefer they have their preferred leader in control. there are always forces like that at some level in our country. and usually they're on the fringe and nobody pays attention to them. but occasionally they ascend. from time to time they get closer to achieving that kind of goal when they have a political leader or a political faction inside real electoral politics and they attach themselves to that figure. right? they're here to undo this dumb, weak american system that relies so much on elections in the first place. well, you get somebody who's got real power inside that system and it's a very, very powerful place from which to attack the system. these are the forces that today look at vladimir putin in russia and say, they have elections, sure, but they're ornamental,bu they're cute, they don't decide
anything. why would you let anyone other than them decide anything? right? there are americans who feel like our elections should be the same thing, that technically we should have them but there h shouldn't be any doubt as to the outcome. and you know, even that fetish for foreign dictatorships isn'te that unusual in history when there was the america first movement before in world war ii, that movement was lousy with elected politicians in the u.s. congress who were taking money from and working for the nazi's top propaganda agent in the united states. the subject of ultra season two, it happens around mccarthy and the red scare. and that was a supposedly anti-communist movement, right? around joe mccarthy. but it really was creepily entangled with this pro-russia, american fascist theorist who argued it was russiaas who had t together and we ought to try to be more like them.
it's not about fighting socialism or communism or marxist whatever. it's not about america first. it's not about some deep state that needs to be uprooted. system of wanted our government to go away. it's about creating a sense of emergency, a sense of an enemy within so that the public atli large can be pushed and persuaded into giving up the system of government and just letting their guy, their real man, their strong man take over. and when that is what you are up against, no, do not be surprised when it turns out they're not going to respect election results, because they don't want elections to be the way we decide things anyway. trump is now telling his supporters you will never have to vote again. he's also even more frequently telling his supporters that hepp doesn't even need them to vote for him this time. he doesn't need their votes. why does he not need their votes? because he apparently thinks he can get back into power without
them. republicans really have stacked election boards in all of the swing states with dozens of officials who are bent on not allowing the certification of the vote totals in their counties and thereby hopefully messing up the certification of the vote totals in their states. it is happening. and yes, kamala harris on the democratic side, she really is running a juggernaut of a campaign. it is going to get turbo charged all the more tomorrow when she announces her running mate. but on the republican side, they are doing something entirely different, which is not about winning the most votes. it is about stopping the votes from being counted. the country's top lawyer who is working both to sound the alarm about this and to try to stop it and going to join us live here next. stay with us. n us live here next stay with us
hey folks, chris counahan here with leaffilter, america's largest gutter and gutter protection company. leaffilter has over 150 locations and has been installed on over a million homes. we've been protecting homes now for over 20 years. our patented technology offers total protection for your home and comes with a lifetime transferable warranty. the process is simple. give us a call to schedule your free gutter inspection. if you decide to move forward with the project, you put nothing down at all. 833 leaffilter or visit leaffilter.com today.
if you have generalized myasthenia gravis, picture what life could look like with... vyvgart hytrulo, a subcutaneous injection that takes about 30 to 90 seconds. for one thing, could it mean more time for you? vyvgart hytrulo can improve daily abilities and reduce muscle weakness with a treatment plan that's personalized to you. do not use vyvgart hytrulo if you have a serious allergy to any of its ingredients. it can cause serious allergic reactions like trouble breathing and decrease in blood pressure leading to fainting and allergic reactions such as rashes, swelling under the skin, shortness of breath, and hives. the most common side effects are respiratory and urinary tract infections, headache, and injection site reactions. it may increase the risk of infusion-related reactions and infection. tell your doctor if you have a history of infections or symptoms of an infection.
talk to your neurologist about vyvgart hytrulo for gmg and picture your life in motion. we all need fiber for our digestive health, but less than 10% of us get enough each day. good thing metamucil gummies are an easy way to get prebiotic, plant-based fiber. with the same amount of fiber as 2 cups of broccoli. metamucil gummies the easy way to get your daily fiber.
with so much entertainment out there wouldn't it be great... metamucil gummies ...if you could find what you want, all in one place?showme paris. xfinity internet customers can enjoy the ultimate entertainment experience and save on some of the biggest names in streaming, all for just $15 a month. get the fastest connection to paris with xfinity.
in 2020 just as officials in wayne county michigan were about to certify the vote in that year's presidential election, two of that county's election officials, both of them republican, got a surprise call from the president of the united states, donald trump himself, and the then chair of the republican party, ronna mcdaniel, called them personally. trump and miss mcdaniel told those two county election officials they needed, essentially, to take back their vote to certify the election results. and those two county officials did actually try to take back their vote to certify. then when it was time to certify the elections at the state level, republicans in michigan again tried to block the vote total from being certified. it was only after one very brave republican election official broke with his fellow republicans that michigan state's results were able to be made official.
republicans pioneered in michigan in 2020. now republicans have kept trying this kind of thing in every election since, including in congressional elections. republicans in at least ten counties refused to certify the vote. in the general election in the midterms that year, county level republicans in pennsylvania and in arizona tried to block the certification of the results. this year republican elections officials in multiple jurisdictions have refused to certify lawful elections repeatedly. and now they're laying the foundation to do it again for the next national election. over the weekend donald trump held a rally in atlanta where he randomly shouted out by name three members of the georgia state board of elections. those throe officials have all refused to acknowledge that joe biden won the 2020 presidential election. they are now trying to push through new rules that would make it easier for county level
officials to refuse to certify election results. this seems to be part of a unified strategy, encourage republican elections officials at every level to refuse to certify no matter what the results are. refusing to certify the election at the local level sticks a wrench in the works, right? it makes it impossible to certify. if you make it impossible to certify a county you make it effectively impossible to certify a state. and ultimately, that puts the whole tallying of the presidential election result into question. veteran democratic elections lawyer mark elias writes, quote, it is worse this election than previous ones, because this year the gop is far more organized. they might have tried to subvert the results in a handful of places in 2020 and 2022 but this year they will try to subvert them all. setting the stage now for what
is to come in november. joining us now is mark elias, who specializes in election litigation. i appreciate you being here. >> thank you for having me. >> we've been talking about this on and off for months. we've been talking about it intensively for the past few weeks. let me just ask you as an expert if not the expert in this field, am i getting any of this wrong or seeing any of this the wrong way around, or do you think i'm presenting this in a way that basically captures the facts? >> i think you captured it entirely correctly. the fact, is when we talk about who won an election, we're talking about two things. we're talking about the unofficial results people get on election night, which is what ap reports, like nbc and msnbc use to call elections on election night, but then we are really talking about the certified results. and these are the results that are first approved at the polling place and then at the county.
and as you point out, then at the state. and then ultimately in presidential elections that choose the electors and then those certificates from the governor go to the congress. andrachel, if you think about it this way, january 6th was the culmination of a dispute which began, among other places, in michigan at the county level. when republicans couldn't achieve what they wanted to at the county level, they went to the state level. when they couldn't achieve that, they launched a fake elector scheme. when they couldn't do that, they launched a series of frivolous lawsuits and finally they attempted to block what on january 6th? the certification of the election. this has been on their radar screen for some time and it will be on their radar screen for sure in 2024. >> we have seen them not just planning to do this for the 2024 election but trying it out in multiple jurisdictions. you among others have pointed out this is a tactic at the county elections board level
that was essentially unheard of before 2020, but now it has happened literally dozens of times. sometimes i'm very off the radar, like municipal election, sometimes in primary, sometimes in general elections, there hasn't yet been another presidential election during which they've tried it, but what have you learned about how this process works? how these essentially concocted controversies can be resolved when they do this stuff at the county level. >> yeah, i mean, look, i have done more recounts and election -- post-election litigation than any other person ever, and i've never -- i had never seen it before 2020. in 2020 i represented president biden and the dnc in 60 plus cases we saw it in minnesota. before that i had done it for al franken in minnesota, various senate campaigns, statewide campaigns. and the idea of tinkering with the certify case at the local level was out of bounds. that is part of the pageantry of democracy. it is what makes us great as a
conditiontry that after a hard fought election the election officials celebrate the results by certifying these election results. whatever takes place in court -- takes place after in court. they refused to certify the election in 2022 in arizona and pennsylvania. i sued them, we won. the folks in one county got indicted for it. you would think that would serve as a deterrent for 2024, but as donald trump proved, the loyalty to him is -- >> what can people concerned about this do to make sure it doesn't happen? >> yeah, so we all play a role. first of all, thank you for calling this out. lawyers, we go to court, but making this public is the big part of the battle. and i'd ask every person listening to this to speak out on this. you know, don't stay silent. you know, you all have a town square. you don't all have millions of
viewers likerachelmaddow, but you can post on social media. you can attend canvas board meetings, file comments in georgia before the state election board. in your own counties you can know who's on these sxoordz attend the meetings. every citizen has a role to play here. if we all do, that i am confident we will defeat these efforts and kamala harris will be sworn in as the next president of the united states. >> marc elias, the founder of democracy docket. i have a feeling this is the first of several conversations we're going to have on this. keep us apprised, okay? we've got much more ahead here tonight. stay with us. more ahead here tonight. stay with us that's why he switched to dovato. dovato is a complete hiv treatment for some adults. no other complete hiv pill uses fewer medicines to help keep you undetectable than dovato. detect this: marnina learned that most hiv pills contain 3 or 4 medicines. dovato is as effective with just 2.
if you have hepatitis b, don't stop dovato without talking to your doctor. don't take dovato if you're allergic to its ingredients or taking dofetilide. this can cause serious or life-threatening side effects. if you have a rash or allergic reaction symptoms, stop dovato and get medical help right away. serious or life-threatening lactic acid buildup and liver problems can occur. tell your doctor if you have kidney or liver problems, or if you are pregnant, breastfeeding, or considering pregnancy. dovato may harm an unborn baby. most common side effects are headache, nausea, diarrhea, trouble sleeping, tiredness, and anxiety. detect this: you could stay undetectable with fewer medicines. ask your doctor about dovato. it's time. yes, the time has come for a fresh approach to dog food.
everyday, more dog people are deciding it's time to quit the kibble and feed their dogs fresh food from the farmer's dog. made by vets and delivered right to your door precisely portioned for your dog's needs. it's an idea whose time has come. ♪♪


i cannot improve on the opening line of this, so i'm going to give it verbatim. ready? quote, five days before donald trump became president in january 2017, a manager at a bank branch in cairo, egypt, received an unusual letter from an organization linked to the egyptian intelligence service. the letter asked the bank to, quote, kindly withdraw nearly $10 million from the organization's account. withdraw it all in cash. as in green bills. quote, inside the state-run national bank of egypt, employees were soon busy placing bundles of $100 bills into two large bags. four men arrived and carried away the bags, which weighed a combined 200 pounds. the bags contained what was then
a sizable share of egypt's entire reserve of american currency. but when those four men came and carried away those hundreds of pounds of cash, bundles of hundred dollar bills, where did the cash go? what could egypt's intelligence service possibly need with 200 pounds of $100 bills? well, fbi agents in the united states thought that cash might have gone to donald trump. explosive reporting from aaron davis and carol at "the washington post" on friday revealed a years long criminal investigation into whether egypt illegally funneled $10 million in cash to donald trump for his 2016 campaign. two years into trump's presidency, federal investigators in the united states had come to know the following things. first, classified u.s. intelligence had indicated that egypt's president at least wanted to give trump $10 million
to boost his presidential campaign in 2016. also, in september 2016 just before the election, candidate trump did have a very chummy meeting with egypt's president in new york after which trump praised him as a, quote, fantastic guy. a few weeks after that meeting, just before the election, look at the time on this, october 28th, just before the 2016 election, trump miraculously produced $10 million of his own money to dump into his campaign, which at the time was quite strapped for cash. that $10 million infusion, though, wasn't a gift from trump to his campaign, it was structured as a loan. so trump would get the money back. trump just a few days later won the election and then just a few days after that or a few days before his inauguration there was that unexplained cash
withdrawal of american dollars by the egyptian intelligence service from a cairo bank, $10 million. the same amount that egypt's president had reportedly wanted to give trump, according to u.s. intelligence. the same amount that trump had miraculously found to loan to his own campaign. egypt's president then inexplicably became one of trump's first guests at the white house as president. trump later released over $1 billion in military aid for egypt. trump at one point even called the egyptian leader, quote, my favorite dictator. and for him there's a lot of competition for that title. but u.s. investigators didn't ever prove that the money from egypt, that cash from that egyptian bank, went to trump. to prove or disprove that they would need access to more of trump's financial records. but they would never get that access. and that is its own scandal. reporting that trump's attorney general bill barr stepped in to make sure that fbi agents wouldn't be allowed to subpoena
trump's financial records. he also then removed the u.s. attorney who was overseeing the investigation. and then he removed her replacement as well until he finally got a u.s. attorney in that jurisdiction who would shut down the investigation entirely. now, what investigators thought might have gone down here, an illegal $10 million cash payment to a presidential campaign from a foreign dictator. i mean, if that were ever proven, that would be one of the biggest presidential scandals in american history if not the biggest. that said, it hasn't been proven. and donald trump has denied it. the reason it hasn't been proven is because nobody was allowed to look at the evidence that would prove it or disprove it. thank you, bill barr. thank you, u.s. justice department for never, apparently, looking into the things bill barr did as attorney general to bring grave shame and discredit upon the u.s. justice
department. that's a story for another day. i will say, though, trump is denying the implications of this reporting and this investigation. he could easily disprove the claims here himself by simply allowing his banks to release his financial records toshowthat he has nothing to hide because he had nothing to do with this. in a hard fought presidential campaign you might think that would become a political pressure point for donald trump. if you're going to tell people they need to release their long form birth certificates, seems like maybe you ought to release your bank records. especially when you're credibly accused of potentially taking a $10 million cash bribe from your favorite dictator. joining us now is "washington post" national investigative reporter carol. thanks for being here, i appreciate it. >> of course,rachel. >> did i get any of that the wrong way around. >> no, you got every part of it. and especially the chronology. i like the way you tell it, because it's very clear.
people who had credible information from the cia, jaw dropping intelligence, the cia was warning the department of justice, we have an informant, an additional corroborating intelligence streams, suggesting that egypts president wanted to get $10 million to donald trump. the doj began by investigating largely under then special counsel robert mueller. and then when they actually found corroborating evidence of $10 million walking out the door of a cairo bank, just as the intelligence foretold through the account of the egyptian spy agency, the general intelligence agency, when they found that incredibly and compelling evidence, they were barred from trying to figure out whether any of that money ended up in any of donald trump's personal or business accounts. >> how -- what would the scope
be? how big a proverbial subpoena would it need to be in order for investigators to get the kinds of records that would prove or disprove these implications. >> the subpoena that was drafted and proposed in april of 2018 by the u.s. attorney's office in d.c. and again prosupposed in june of 2019 and again proposed in the fall of 2019 was fairly limited. it basically asked for records around the time of this bizarre cash withdrawal in egypt. january 15, 2017, a few weeks before and several weeks after. it was not a very broad amount of time. it was scoped down and careful. but they could not get the u.s. attorney's approval for that after she met with attorney general bill barr. she decided that they didn't have the factual basis or the predicate to seek the records of the sitting president.
and just so you know,rachel, if you walked into the fbi field office today and said you believed you had information about me laundering money or taking money illegally, the fbi could get a subpoena for my bank records in about ten minutes. it wouldn't take very long. in this case, this group was blocked for two years from gathering any evidence. >> carol, what would you -- just, your reporter's take on this from what you understand and the sources that you spoke with, how would you describe the confidence level of the investigators who thought that this $10 million might have gone from egypt to donald trump? i mean, the trump appointees to the justice department who shut this thing down and didn't let them investigate it, they sort of made it seem like these folks were locking for evidence for some theory. but the people who spoke to you who were involved in the investigation, how did they characterize their level of
confidence or suspicion that something really was truly wrong here. >> the sources we spoke to who are very close to the probe described a group of agents, fbi agents and prosecutors, who were gobsmacked that they had found this level of information. first the intelligence was pretty stunning and came from reliable -- a reloibl source who had provided reliable information in the past, in this field. then they had a document that proved a movement of $10 million from exactly the intelligence agency that was suspected in the intelligence to have been the source of the funds in the exact dollar figure. then they had donald trump basically flipping the switch on all of this u.s. policy on egypt in a way that was extremely beneficial to the president of egypt. the first meeting that was ever held with the new u.s. president
was with the egyptian president. a pretty big kiss, if you will, to that country that we had held at arm's length. these investigators and agents were described to us as stunned because they had never gathered this quality of investigation in a money laundering or financial conspiracy case before. certainly not one that had been closed down and not one in which they'd been barred from continuing to investigate the leads right in front of their faces. >> wow. stunned and gobsmacked. again, there is an easy way to sort this out. those financial records don't have to be subpoenaed. a candidate that wants to dispel these allegations and said they were not true could simply release that information publicly. but we will await that development. "washington post" national investigative reporter carol, thank you for the reporting. thank you for helping us understand it. >> thank you. >> we'll be right back. >> thank you >> we'll be right back
when did i call leaffilter? when i saw my gutters overflowing onto my porch. leaffilter is a permanent gutter solution, so, you never have to worry about costly damage from clogged gutters again. it's the easiest call you can make. call 833.leaf.filter today, or visit leaffilter.com.
what causes a curve down there? is it peyronie's disease? will it get worse? how common is it? who can i talk to? can this be treated? stop typing. start talking to a specialized urologist. because it could be peyronie's disease, or pd. it's a medical condition where there is a curve in the erection, caused by a formation of scar tissue. and an estimated 1 in 10 men may have it. but pd can be treated even without surgery. say goodbye to searching online.
find a specialized urologist who can diagnose pd and build a treatment plan with you. visit makeapdplan.com today. i'm sam, i have a three and a half-year-old puppy. and build a treatment levi is rambunctious, he's very active. so, levi's had to go to the vet because he was coughing a bit, and he ended up getting x-rays. it would have cost over five hundred dollars, had i not had fetch pet insurance. fetch provides coverage for all of this... and so much more! fetch protects over four hundred thousand pets. get paid back up to ninety percent on unexpected vet bills. fetch. the most comprehensive pet insurance. get your free quote today. why do couples choose a sleep number smart bed? i need help with her snoring. sleep number does that. thank you. during our biggest sale of the year, save 50% on the sleep number® limited edition smart bed. shop now at a sleep number store near you.
when we're young, we're told anything is possible... ...but only a few of us go out and prove it. witness the greatness of anna hall on a connection worthy of gold: xfinity mobile. only xfinity gives you the most powerful mobile wifi network, with speeds up to a gig in millions of locations. and right now, get up to $800 off the new galaxy z flip6 and z fold6 when you trade in your current phone. get the fastest connection to paris with xfinity.   quick announcement before i