friends, we have a very big week ahead. on thursday night,rachelmaddowand the team will have special coverage and analysis of the first presidential debate. it starts at 7:00 p.m. eastern right here on msnbc. and something else we are very much looking for to hear at msnbc , our premier event. msnbc live, democracy 2024 and is coming to brooklyn, new york, on saturday, september seventh. i am so excited to join my colleagues for thought-provoking conversation and meet all of you. scan the qr codetoday. that does it for me tonight. "therachelmaddowshow" starts right now. hi,rachel. >> you realize this means people will understand whether we are wearing pants or just disembodied people from the waist up.
it's going to be a big crisis for a lot of us. >> i'm going in sweat pants. i don't know about you,rachel. >> i always am. people can't tell. that's the magic of television. of cropping on television. let's say. thank you. much appreciated. good to have you here. >> thank you.   and thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. it's really good for you to be here. i'm goingshowyou something, but i'm going to tell you what you're going see in advance. i'm going tell you in advance, but you know in advance what's coming. but let me just describe it ahead of time so you can get your head around it. okay? it's going to start with, i think it's like a bracelet, a decorated bracelet hitting the floor. it's possible that it's like a mouth guard or something. but that's so gross, i don't want to think about it. we're just going to call it a bracelet. a decorated bracelet hits the
floor. then there is a guy with fake fire. and that guy then shows off that he's got teeth like this. like the james bond villain, the guy that had the metal teeth. grrr, teeth like that. after we see the teeth like that, next there is a guy who breaks a window with his head, and then there is a guy who points. it goes on from there. but let's -- that's enough. let's just watch that part now, and then we'll do the next part. so start with the -- start with the bracelet thing. watch this. [ laughter ] see, it's just like i said. bracelet, fake fire, metal teeth, head through the window, and then the guy who points.
theoretically, grrr, it should help to know what's coming in this sequence, but it still doesn't help. it's just as weird. it still keeps going. after the pointing guy, we then get a guy motioning like he is going cut himself in the neck. then we get a guy who kicks the air. and inexplicably, you get the highlight. you get a guy with vampire teeth. and then the guy with the big fake vampire teeth punches the fake fire. and then two other guys do punchy things and then it gets really funny. i can't even describe it. there is an audio component, and then there is donald trump. so start it. roll it from right where the guy just points. >> affliction man, july 19th, the honda center, anaheim, california, live on pay-per-view. >> i will say these are tough
looking guys. i asked one of them how long would i last? you know, i'm tough. we're all tough. and he looked at me like i was kidding. that wasn't even nice. but it's an honor to have you in trump tower. i think "affliction" is going to do really well. >> i just want to say that we did not edit this and cut in a different goofy voice where it was supposed to be a tough guy voice. thisshowit came out. play the actual announcement part again. listen to the voice here. >> affliction banned, july 19th, anaheim center, california live on pay-per-view. >> "affliction banned." they apparently did not spend for the announcer guy, they had the intern do it. this is a thing that donald trump failed at in business. i did not know that this was another one of his failed business ventures until "new york" magazine wrote about it
yesterday. in reference to donald trump saying at a rally this weekend that he wants to force immigrants into fighting for entertainment. he wants a migrant cage match fighting league. because, you know, sure, maybe the lions are all full from all the christians. so time for new entertainments for him and his followers. but in reference to that bizarre proposal that he made at a political rally this weekend, "new york" magazine noted that trump in 2008 formed his own mixed martial arts league with the vampire teeth and all the rest of it. >> i think "affliction" is going to do really well. >> spoiler alert. "affliction" did not do very well. trump was the face of it. he was the promoter. michael cohen was the coo. trump's mixed martial arts league hosted precisely two events, and then it failed. it folded.
another in a long line of illustrious trump business ventures. this one was new to me. he was operating the vampire teeth break windows with your head thing, which failed, at the same time that he was operating trump university, which was shut down as a scam, as a fraud in a settlement that required trump to pay $25 million to the people who had been ripped off by his supposed university. he was operating both the vampire teeth thing and the trump university scam at the same time he was also operating the trump foundation, which was also shut down as a scam. it was dissolved by court order, and its assets were ordered to be redistributed to actual charities while trump had to pay millions of dollars in restitution. he was operating all of those at the same time he was, of course, running the trump organization, the family business that was built by his father. under donald trump's leadership, that business of course was found guilty of criminal fraud.
its cfo is now in prison and trump himself will be sentenced in a couple of weeks, possibly sentenced to prison after he was convicted of 34 felonies for using that same business to launder illegal campaign payments. and with a record like that, naturally he is luxuriating in support from the business world now. because wow, what a businessman. can't believe the boxer with the vampire teeth thing didn't work. it seems like such a sure bet for a sport that is based on all sorts of, you know, punching and kicking and grappling. but not at all on biting. definitely get yourself a vampire teeth guy. that will work. the first presidential debate is -- that is a real thing. it's really. sorry. "affliction." definitely make it sound like it's something you might catch and then ask people to come
together in a big collective space to catch the affliction. i'm sorry. the first presidential debate is happening this week, which is weird, because it's june. i can't speak to whatever advantage the two campaigns see in having their candidates debate now nearly five months before the election, but it means that we're all getting set this week for this face-off between the two candidates. and we've got very different metrics to look at than we would usually have by the time a presidential debate rolled around well into the fall, right. polls don't really mean much this time of the year. polls don't really mean much five months before voting. most likely voters won't even be paying attention into the race until well into the fall when debates used to normally be scheduled. but as they head into this weird very early debate, the relative strength of their campaigns is something that we have to assess by sort of indirect measures.
and one of the things that people have been using heading into this debate to contrast the candidates, to sort of measure the strength of each of their campaigns, sort of handicap their chances at who is going to win the presidency. one of the things people have been using, you might have seen a lot about this in the press in the last couple of weeks is the issue of fundraising. you have likely seen a lot of headlines and a lot of attention to the overall financial contest between these two candidates. and if you have been paying attention to those headlines you have likely seen that the financial race between the two candidates used to favor biden, but now trump has reportedly caught up. and along -- along with that sort of bottom line comparison of the two candidates, you're also seeing really outsized attention now to the very, very, very, very, very, very rich people of america, the kind of people who can donate 10, 20, 30, $50 million in one set
without breaking a sweat and therefore change the nature of the race. and very, very rich people like 245 have started to write those kind of checks there is a rich man named timothy mellon who earned this headline in 2020 when he donated tens of millions of dollars to help trump. timothy mellon leads 2020 jump shot donors, defends use of racial stereotypes. that was four years ago. now this year, he is giving even more. he has made multimillion-dollar donations to robert f. kennedy jr. and to trump in this election. the accumulating nature of his donations to trump mark him as one of the largest political donors in u.s. history at this point. and this comes on the heels of high profile gazillion fundraisers for trump hosted by right-wing tech billionaires in california. and of course it comes on the heels of months of high profile trump support from tesla
billionaire elon musk, who used to be thought of as a quirky business billionaire, as an eccentric inventor type, but now he's basically this guy, if this guy also had the resources to buy twitter and then destroy it while also inexplicably being allowed by the u.s. government to operate crucial national security assets that he has used to help russia's war against ukraine. so this has been getting outsized attention, in part because of the extreist beliefs of some of these very, very rich people who are now making a bigshowout of supporting donald trump. but it's also getting outsized attention because it's one of the few metrics we have to assess the relative strength of these two candidates and their campaigns as they head into this very early, very weird first debate this week. it's also getting attention, though, the preferences of the business class and the donation
behavior of the uber wealthy is getting attention also right now not just because of its affect on sort of the odds in the race, the likely to win, it's also getting attention because of the substance of it. because on what basis are these business folks and these very, very, very rich people making these decisions? because the biden record and the trump record are real things that business people can look at and presumably make rational decisions about if they are in fact making decisions about this election for economic and business reasons, which is what the press keeps telling us. right. we have an incumbent president and somebody who was the last president. so they both have a term in office that we can look at, that we can measure against one another. they've both got observable records. why would business people be turning against joe biden on the basis of his record, which is
what we keep being told in the press heading into this debate? i mean, this is something where there again is an observable truth here. under joe biden we just had the best year of american job creation in the 21st century. the last time we had a streak this long of unemployment below 4%, it was the early 1960s. under joe biden, the u.s. has the best economy in the world, literally the envy of the world. in fact, the world bank just said that the u.s. economy is so good, it's actually stabilizing the whole world economy. the u.s. stock market keeps hitting new records and then breaking those records and then hitting new ones that are even higher. crime sat 50-year lows. we just had the largest single year drop in the murder rate drop that we have ever recorded. and president biden keeps passing, keeps signing big legislation that's good for the economy, that's good for the business climate. and he has been able do it,
miracle of all miracles, with bipartisan support. and that includes the big infrastructure bill and domestic manufacturing of computer chips and all of these other things. i mean, this is the kind of business landscape hellscape leaders have been suffering through under joe biden. headlines like these, "corporate profits hit record high as economy boomed in fourth quarter of 2023." or this one, "u.s. corporate profits soar with margins at widest since 1950." or this one, money watch "u.s. companies just had their best year since before most of us were born." oh, the poor business guys. they really need trump back, don't they? and even if they want to say oh, it's not about the business climate, it's about being fiscally responsible. it's just that we're so worried about the debt and the deficit, and that's why we want to go back to trump and get rid of joe biden, i mean, tell me what the
rationale is there in reality. tell me what the rationale is. because the committee for responsible federal budget, one of these nonpartisan fiscal watchdog groups put this out today, which kind of puts a fine point on it. that's who added what to the debt when you compare trump's term in office with joe biden's term in office. and no, you can't blame covid. they actually break out the covid spending. that's the bit in the lighter red color there. so, yes, donald trump and joe biden both spent on the pandemic. they had to. but even if you wipe that out, trump added trillions more to the debt and the deficit than biden did, regardless of covid. and maybe you don't particularly care about the deficit and the debt, but business guys almost always say they do. and so what's the rationale along those lines for supporting trump over biden? as we head into this weird early debate this week, supporters of
this business genius created an impression that trump's got an advantage heading into the debate at this point in the campaign, because his business record, right? he is so appealing to all the other rich business guys who so appreciate how smart you need to be to book a guy with vampire teeth for your cage match business. they're trying to create an impression that there is support for trump in the business world because there's, you know, economic and business reasons to support someone who himself is so good at business. in reality, the actual stakes in this election, the comparative record of these two candidates on the economy and business, those -- it doesn't favor the failed promoter of the affliction mixed martial arts league which held about two bouts before it folded. and the man was convicted on
multiple fraud counts and wtz named in his own trial for falsification of business records and his cfo is currently doing his second stint in prison. weirdly, his business record, his business environment record, his job creation record, his economic and fiscal record on the facts doesn't support the idea that he should be winning support from people who prioritize those things. despite the massive spin generated by all these high profile ideological trumpy billionaires, we're starting now finally as of today, i think, to see a corrective in that narrative about what's really happening. this is the front page of the "new york times" tonight. quote, ceos are frustrated. that doesn't mean they embrace trump. quote, a number of prominent figures in silicon valley and on wall street have grown increasingly vocal in their criticism of mr. biden, their praise of former president donald j. trump, or both. still, that shift mostly
reflects movement among executives who already supported republican politicians. quote, there is little evidence of a major shift in allegiance among executives away from biden and toward trump. it's on the front page. this son the op-ed today, quote, recent headlines suggest that our nation's business leaders are embracing the presidential candidate donald trump. his campaign would have you believe that our nation's top chief executives are returning to support trump for president, touting declarations of support from some prominent financiers. it is far from the truth, though. they didn't flock to him before, and they certainly aren't flocking to him now. quote, trump continues to suffer from the lowest level of corporate support in the history of the republican party. quote, not a single fortune 100 chief executive has donated to trump so far this year, which indicates a major break from the overwhelming business and executive support for republican presidential candidates that dates back over a century. trump received a, quote, frigid
reception when he spoke to the business round table this month with no noticeable applause at any point during his, quote, remarkably meandering remarks, according to cnbc's andrew ross sorkin. and if trump assuming a subdued if not hostile posture. chief executives are not protectionist, isolationist or dean phobic. and they believe in investing where there is the rule of law, not the law of rulers. whether business support will make the difference for either one oof these kids in november, heading into this debate this week, there has been a concerted effort to create a perception, a false perception that trump has the whole business world lining up behind him. and that's because his time in office compared favorably with president biden, which is not true on fiscal issues. it's not true on the overall business climate. it is not true on jobs and not true 234 terms of business
leaders lining up behind these two candidates. but that kind of false perception itself has political consequences, and heading into this debate and all the attention it's going to get about the well of the relative strengths of these two candidates and what they have to offer, what they have to offer, excuse me, more than ever, it is worth getting these things right. joining us now is my dear friend and colleague stephanie ruhle. she is host of "the 11th hour" here at msnbc. she is a business analyst. she is joining us live from beautiful aspen, colorado, because of course she is, because she is speaking at the aspen ideas festival which is a gathering of high fluting thinkers from all over the world. i asked steph to be here tonight because she is the only person i know who speaks to ceos. stephanie ruhle, thank you so much for totally screwing up yourshowprep schedule and being here tonight. i know it's a really busy night for you. >> thank you for having me. i'm in awe of your lead-in. you have laid out exactly the sort of economic landscape of
what we're looking like here. and one of the main reasons you're seeing sort of this trump narrative that all these business leaders are backing me, because, remember, the number one thing they want to try to push and convince people of is that the economy is terrible. and while inflation is a persistent progress, business leaders are not standing with donald trump. and that business round table meeting, it's really important for our audience to understand trump would have you believe corporate america invited me in. they wanted me to speak to them. it was their normal meeting that they have every year, and they invited both candidates. president biden could not attend because he was at the g7, and his chief of staff jeff zients was there. and donald trump has said since then they were clapping for me at the end. they were, because it was at the end of a presidential candidate's remarks, and that is what a room does who's marginally courteous. but you just mentioned the reporting from andrew ross sorkin.
i spoke to other people who basically said this thing was all over the place. and it is a break. predonald trump, the business community, sort of the c suite class was with the republican party. you remember that al smith dinner years ago when george h.w. bush kind of jokingly looked out at the room of business leaders in new york and said "you're my base." that's not the case anymore. it was after charlottesville, you saw the first business council in american history break from a president and say i can't even be associated with him anymore. >> steph, one of the reasons i think this is important heading into the debate is because i'm not a person who knows a ton about the business order. i didn't don't think of myself as sharing all the same values as ceos and people on wall street and people who read the business section first and maybe even don't read the politics page. i don't think of myself that way. but i also know politics reasonably well, and i feel like the perceptions of who the
business community is with is an important thing even for people who aren't themselves in the business world, right? because you start to think oh, these business people are smart. they must know who is going to be economically better for the country. and that's i believe why they're trying to create this perception. and that's why it's important for us to report if that perception is false. >>rachel, it's especially important this year because we've had this division, right. all of the positive economic data that you just laid out is disconnected from how people feel, because people haven't been feeling good about the economy because they're coming off of covid, because of persistent inflation. so when you keep pushing this narrative that the business community is standing with donald trump, it convinces people, well, maybe bad news is coming. but here's what's important. there are -- there is sort of a subgroup of sort of very, very successful wall street financiers. there is elon musk and elon musk backup dancers who have been very outspoken trump, pro-trump
in the last few weeks, and i want to explain why. they know how good the economy is. elon musk, and all that joe biden has done for electric vehicles, he certainly knows how good the economy. he knows how good the stock market is. however, they know that donald trump is transactional. they know that if they stand with donald trump now, 23 they're throwing fundraisers for him, that if in fact he becomes the president, they're going to have a direct line into the oval office. so it's as though they're trying to recreate kind of a putin's oligarchs here. if they help trump now, he will take their call and give them the quote, unquote get out of jail free pass six months from now. now that is not the fortune 100 ceos out there that have all of these constituents, but this small wall street universe, the nelson peltz, the bill ackmans, they're putting on the trumpshowbecause they would love to have his kind of power and in their back pocket if he were to win. >> and the problem with that form of corruption is you may
get what you want when you've thrown the last fundraiser, when you've given him the last million, but then somebody else comes along and gives him two million or does a bigger fundraiser for him, and because it's totally transactional, you have no legitimate principled buy-in on anything. it's just who is willing to pay for it. most recently and in largest, to the largest effect. that's why the rule of law usual slay better idea for the business world than the law of rulers. certainly in the medium term and certainly in the long-term. steph ruhle, thank you so much. i know i'm midwesting up yourshow. thank you for joining me from aspen. thanks. >> thank you.   we've got much more to come tonight. we have a hugely busy week this week with all sorts of stuff screwing up my calendar and yours. we're going to talk than coming up. stay with us. zoe? don't panic. with etsy we can find the perfect gift, and send her a preview right away. thanks guys. [ surprised scream ] don't panic. gift easy with etsy.
a mystery! jessie loves playing detective. but the real mystery was her irritated skin. so, we switched to tide free & gentle. it cleans better, and doesn't leave behind irritating residues. and it's gentle on her skin. tide free and gentle liquid is epa safer choice certified. it's gotta be tide. if you have chronic kidney disease you can reduce the risk of kidney failure with farxiga. because there are places you'd like to be. farxiga can cause serious side effects, including ketoacidosis that may be fatal, dehydration, urinary tract, or genital yeast infections, and low blood sugar. a rare, life-threatening bacterial infection in the skin of the perineum could occur. stop taking farxiga and call your doctor right away if you have symptoms of this infection, an allergic reaction, or ketoacidosis. ♪ far-xi-ga ♪
if you spit blood when you brush, it could be the start of a domino effect. new parodontax active gum repair breath freshener. clinically proven to help reverse the four signs of early gum disease. a new toothpaste from parodontax, the gum experts. christian nationalists are mobilizing. they want to turn america into a christian theocracy. our secular democracy is in danger. all personal liberties are in jeopardy.
vote like your rights depend on it. and join the freedom from religion foundation, an association of atheists and agnostics working to keep religion and government separate. dave's company just scored the an comcast business 5-year price lock guarantee. high five! high five... -i'm on a call. it's 5 years of reliable, gig speed internet... five years of advanced security... five years of a great rate that won't change.
yep, dave's feeling it. yes. but it's only for a limited time. five years? -five years. introducing the comcast business 5-year price lock guarantee. powering 5 years of savings. powering possibilities. - [narrator] life with ear ringing sounded like a constant train whistle i couldn't escape. then i started taking lipo flavonoid. with 60 years of clinical experience, it's the number one doctor recommended brand for ear ringing. and now i'm finally free. take back control with lipo flavonoid.
all right. get your calendars out. cancel all the plans you kind of wanted to cancel any way, but you didn't have a good excuse. now you have a good excuse. i'm here to tell you that the rest of this week is going to be bananas. first of all, tomorrow is election day in new york, utah, colorado, and south carolina. this is going to be one of the most interesting, most consequential, most newsworthy primary and election days we've had all this year. in new york, there is that very high profile race where democratic congressman jamaal bowman is being primaried by
george latimer. that race is now the most expensive house primary race in american history. nearly $25 million spent on political ads in that race. in utah, it's a u.s. senate primary. this is the seat that's being vacated by retiring senator mitt romney. republican voters will get to pick their nominee for that seat. long-time republican utah congressman john curtis is favored to win the race. but he has had to fight to even get this name on the ballot, to keep his name on the ballot after he lost his party's official convention endorsement to a trump-backed maga candidate instead. in south carolina tomorrow, republicans are going to vote in a runoff election to choose between ad sheri biggs, who has the backing of south carolina's goran. it will be her or a televangelist named mark burns who is backed by donald trump who incidentally has said he wants to execute public school teachers for treason.
that's nice. all of that is just what's happening tomorrow. then the day after tomorrow, on wednesday, we enter a whole new kind of crazy, because wednesday, thursday, and friday, all three of those days, the supreme court of the united states is scheduled to hand down more decisions. and they have a ton left, including another really big, important, very consequential reproductive rights decision. they ever got a huge decision dealing with the government's fundamental ability to regulate things, everything from the food we eat to the air we breathe. that's not even counting the long delayed decision which we are still waiting for in the outrageous donald trump immunity from the law case. we could gte any or all of those between wednesday and friday. and then on thursday, right in the middle of all that, there is this presidential debate, which is bizarre. this is the earliest presidential debate in modern history. it's so weird this is happening five months before the election
in june. but hey, why not. that debate is going to be hosted by our friends at cnn. but this is important. even though it's being hosted by cnn, it's going to air live on all the networks, including this one. so yes, hosted by cnn. you'll see cnn hosts as moderators. but you can watch the whole thing live here in realtime with us on msnbc. i will be here with the whole msnbc team for live special coverage both before and after that debate. our coverage is going to start 7:00 p.m. on thursday. again, you're going to be able to watch this anywhere on all the networks. we hope that you'll watch it with us. we promise to -- i don't know if we'll make it fun. we'll at least make it our own msnbc brand of weird. i also have one other big announcement to add to that. today msnbc has just announced a new live event, and we have never really done anything like this before. but we are giving it a try. sort of by popular demand. it's a live event.
you can buy tickets. you can come to it in person. it's not going to be on tv. it's an in-person event. it's going to include a whole bunch of msnbc hosts, including me. it's called "msnbc live: democracy 2024." it's going happen on september 7th, saturday, september 7th in brooklyn, new york. we're all going to be there. it's a whole day-long event. you're going to be able to see all of us and also see the premiere of an msnbc movie that we're not saying anything about yet. if you want to meet all of us goobers in person, you can buy tickets for this event. it's a live event. the tickets just went on sale today. we've never done anything like this before. tickets are on sale at msnbc.com/democracy2024. i told you. it's a lot. if you want to cancel stuff that you didn't want to do any way, blame me. i'll send you a doctor's note. we'll be right back.
to me, harlem is home. but home is also your body. i asked myself, why doesn't pilates exist in harlem? so i started my own studio. getting a brick and mortar in new york is not easy. chase ink has supported us from studio one to studio three. when you start small, you need some big help. and chase ink was that for me.
earn up to 5% cash back on business essentials with the chase ink business cash card from chase for business. make more of what's yours. clogged gutters can cause big problems fast. until now. call 833-leaffilter today for your free gutter inspection. i've had terrible flooding problems on my porch. now i understand why. right now leaffilter is offering a free inspection, on your schedule. leaffilter is a permanent gutter solution, so you never have to worry about costly damage from clogged gutters again. call us today and schedule your free inspection.
to schedule your free inspection, call 833.leaf.filter today or visit leaffilter.com. this is clem. clem's not a morning person. or a night person. or a...people person. but he is an "i can solve this in 4 different ways" person. and that person... is impossible to replace. you need clem. clem needs benefits. work with principal so we can help you help clem
with a retirement and benefits plan that's right for him. let our expertise round out yours. everybody wants super straight, super white teeth. they want that hollywood white smile. new sensodyne clinical white provides 2 shades whiter teeth and 24/7 sensitivity protection. i think it's a great product. it's going to help a lot of patients.
it started in kansas. s will than two months after the supreme court overturned roe, after they overturned the constitutional right to an abortion, voters in red, red, red state kansas resoundingly stood up for abortion rights in their state. 59% of kansans voting that abortion should stay legal in that state. a few weeks later, democrats won a special election for an open congressional seat in a swing district in upstate new york with a candidate who made the loss of abortion rights the centerpiece of his campaign.
a week after that, in alaska, another democrat won another special election in the house, this time flipping a seat from red to blue. also running on a pro-abortion rights platform. i should mention, only 12% of alaska voters are democrats. but the democrat won that seat. then a few months later in november 2022, we had the first big nationwide election since they overturned roe, and more democrats ran aggressive campaigns focused on reproductive rights. and in those elections in november 2022, republicans suffered historically poor results, the worst for an opposition party in decades. beyond the congressional races that day, there were five more states that put abortion directly on the ballot, and in all five of those states, voters moved towards abortion rights and away from abortion restrictions. the reproductive rights victories continued the following year, affecting the
race for a supreme court on the wisconsin -- excuse me, affecting the race for a seat on the wisconsin supreme court and the race for the kentucky governorship and the race for control of the legislature in virginia. also, the state constitution in ohio where voters chose to enshrine the right to have an abortion in the ohio state constitution. since the fall of roe two years ago today, the political impact has been indelible and stark and remarkably consistent. and that has been bolstered by what the overturning of roe has changed in the minds of the american people. it's a new understanding that the question of reproductive rights is not just about accessing abortion, it is about what happens if you have a miscarriage or you go into septic shock during pregnancy, or you have any other dangerous form of complication, and you can't access health care because the state you live in has banned abortion.
one pollster telling the "new york times" today that before roe fell, the percentage of the public that considered abortion personally relevant to them was as low as about 15%. but in the post-roe landscape that we live in now, that has changed. her more recent polling asked independent voters about the stories of women almost dying because they live in states that have banned abortion. of independent voters she polled who support abortion rights, the number who said the stories will affect how they will vote in upcoming elections is 73%. the pollster tells the "new york times," quote, now it's about pregnancy, and everybody knows someone who had a baby or wants to have a baby or might get pregnant. it is profoundly personal to a majority of the public. joining us now is amy klobuchar, democratic senator from the great state of minnesota. senator klobuchar, it's really nice to see you. thank you so much for making time to be here. >> thanks,rachel. it's great to be on again.
>> so today is the two havana year anniversary since roe was overturned. we know a lot about the human cost. we know about, for example, new research just published in the journal of the american medical association which says that it has adversely and seriously affected infant mortality in that state with its profound abortion ban. what do you think is most important for the american public to understand on this two-year anniversary since the decision was made for the country? >> you know, i think everyone remembers where they were when this thought to be leaked opinion, you found it was a real opinion. i was at the getting my haircut, and there is a line of four women at the hairdressers, and everyone in the place said that just can't be true. two years later we know how true it is. 50 years of freedoms just thrown out the window. you've got ivf affected. 8 million babies were born that way. you've got contraception
affected. you have got a doctors in fear of criminal prosecution. you have women bleeding out in parking lots because they are told in an emergency room hey you got to be more serious. we know you're in bad health, but we got to be kind of near death to be able to get the kind of treatment that you need. one in three women are now living in a state with an extreme abortion ban. that is our current reality,rachel. but it does not have to be our fortune. and that's what you see in these states all across the country with people turning out on the prairies, people turning out for referendums and for governors races, and u.s. senate races, and of course a presidency, because it is so clear, and you're going hear this on the dea bait stage where one of the candidates, donald trump said he is proud to be the person responsible for overturning roe, and then you've got joe biden vowing to codify roe v. wade into law. so long as we elect these
candidates and we know we need to take back the house and win these senate races. that is what is at stake in this election. >> i think that is a lot of people who are strongly for abortion right, whether they were before this decision or they newly are strongly for abortion rights worry that this is something that the supreme court has taken on that republican legislatures have taken on, and they've effectively taken it out of the hands of somebody like joe biden who supports abortion rights, that when he talks about codifying roe v. wade, i'm not sure if people know what that means in terms of what it would do in all of these states where state laws, where republican legislatures and republican governors have enforced these bans. >> well we know it is time to have a national standard, which is roe v. wade. that will guarantee our freedoms. because what trump has now said is that he wants to return it to the states. what does that mean? look at what these states are doing. one state, texas, with that
trump-appointed judge. and yes, the judges are on the line here. the trump-appointed judge banning mifepristone. you've got another state where they're going to criminally prosecute doctors. another state says they don't want to have people cross lines to get their reproductive health care. state by state by state, you saw governors racing to their state house to see how draconian they could be to kiss the ring of donald trump. that is what is going on right now. so that is a clear difference. and i think as you showed with your proof points from across the country, people do see the difference. they know that there is one person who is going stand up for them and then there is donald trump who has vowed over the years everything he has said from yes, he'd prosecute doctors to yes, he would look at a national ban to yes, most recently, hey, let's give it back to the states. look at the patchwork of laws that we have had that have hurt the women of this country.
>> minnesota isn't that right amy klobuchar, thank you so much for your time tonight. it's the anniversary, but we're also in this very, very acute political moment. i want to thank people really focusing in on how much this is tied toe what happens these next political decisions we make as a country. thanks for helping us understand it. >> exactly. thanks,rachel.   all right. we'll be right back. stay with us. stay with us ese days, you may wonder why mint is deflating the price of mint unlimited from $30 a month to just $15 a month. well, it's easy. we know a great price on a great product is better than one of those things. right? does big wireless really believe that these things actually work? ( ♪♪ ) ( ♪♪ ) this one will never see the light of day. all right.
♪♪ imagine a future where plastic is not wasted... but instead remade over and over... into the things that keep our food fresher, our families safer, and our planet cleaner. to help us get there, america's plastic makers are investing billions of dollars to create innovative products and new recycling technologies for sustainable change. because when you push for smarter solutions, big things can happen. ♪ limu emu... ♪ and doug. (bell ringing) limu, someone needs to customize and save hundreds on car insurance with liberty mutual. let's fly! (inaudible sounds)
chief! doug. (inaudible sounds) ooooo ah. (elevator doors opening) (inaudible sounds) i thought you were right behind me. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty, liberty, liberty, ♪ ♪ liberty. ♪ christian nationalists are mobilizing. they want to turn america into a christian theocracy. our secular democracy is in danger. all personal liberties are in jeopardy. vote like your rights depend on it. and join the freedom from religion foundation, an association of atheists and agnostics working to keep religion and government separate.

the common wealth of the northern mariana islands.
it's a territory of the united states, but it is very, very, very, very, very far from the mainland u.s. i think we canshowyou on a map here. this is the united states. you see over there on the right side of the map. that's the pacific coast side of the american mainland. you see the state of hawaii way out there in the pacific ocean. and way, way, way, way further out in the pacific from hawaii you find the northern mariana islands. they are way out there. they're way closer to, say, australia than they are to the united states. and that's important. that proximity plays a crucial part in a big story that just broke this evening as we were getting on the air. because at 9:00 a.m. wednesday morning, local time in the northern mariana islands, in a u.s. federal courthouse in the capital of saipan, julian assange, the founder of wikileaks, is expected to appear and to plead guilty to a single felony count of illegally obtaining and disclosing
national security material. and the really huge news here is that after he pleads guilty in that federal courthouse in the northern mariana islands, after he pleads guilty there, he will be allowed to fly home to his native australia as a free man. for the last five years, julian assange has been in prison in britain. he has been fighting attempts to extradite him to the united states to stand trial on more than a dozen charges that he illegally obtained and disseminated classified information on his wikileaks website. even once he and the united states department of justice reached an agreement under which he would plead guilty to one count, essentially be sentenced to time served and released from prison in britain, there was still one last hang-up that needed to be sorted out. defendants, if they're going to plead guilty to a felony, they have to do it in person. julian assange has always adamantly refused to set foot in the mainland united states. and so that's where this compromise came from. the northern marianas, the
northern mariana islands, that is where he will enter his plea. julian assange first made a name for himself leaking volumes of classified information on america's wars in afghanistan and iraq through the site wikileaks. he then in 2016 published leaked material the russian intelligence services had hacked from the democratic party. russian military intelligence stole the material, then they used wikileaks. they disseminated the material through wikileaks in a specific effort to hurt hillary clinton's campaign and help donald trump's campaign. donald trump, you will remember, happily accepted the help. he cited wikileaks nearly 150 times during the campaign. at one point just flat-out crowing "i love wikileaks." three years later when trump's justice department indicted julian assange, trump claimed he knew nothing about this organization. the biden administration is the
third u.s. administration to try to figure out what to do with julian assange. the obama justice department ultimately decided that the first amendment issues were basically too thorny. when the trump justice department indicted assange in 2019, many people feared it would have a chilling effect on the ability of journalists to report on national security and classified information. that said, lots of other people argued that what julian assange was doing was something other than journalism. but when it came to the biden administration, it seems they just wanted to figure out a way to put this case to bed, and they have figured something out. and so on wednesday, in a very unlikely spot in the middle of the pacific, the long saga of julian assange versus the united states and the united states versus julian assange looks like it is set to come to an end. at least that's what it looks like from here. but watch this space. ♪♪
♪♪ chewy, a citi client, uses citi's financial expertise to help drive its growth and keep its supply chain moving, so more pet parents can get everything they need... right when they need it. keeping more pets, and families, happy. ♪♪ for the love of moving our clients forward. i'm adding downy unstopables to my wash. for the love of progress.
now i'll be smelling fresh all day long. [sniff] still fresh. ♪♪ get 6x longer-lasting freshness, plus odor protection. try for under $5! smile! you found it. the feeling of finding psoriasis can't filter out the real you. so go ahead, live unfiltered with the one and only sotyktu, a once-daily pill for moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, and the chance at clear or almost clear skin. it's like the feeling of finding you're so ready for your close-up. or finding you don't have to hide your skin just your background. once-daily sotyktu was proven better, getting more people clearer skin than the leading pill. don't take if you're allergic to sotyktu; serious reactions can occur. sotyktu can lower your ability to fight infections, including tb. serious infections, cancers including lymphoma,
muscle problems, and changes in certain labs have occurred. tell your doctor if you have an infection, liver or kidney problems, high triglycerides, or had a vaccine or plan to. sotyktu is a tyk2 inhibitor. tyk2 is part of the jak family. it's not known if sotyktu has the same risks as jak inhibitors. find what plaque psoriasis has been hiding. there's only one sotyktu, so ask for it by name. so clearly you. sotyktu. an alternative to pills, voltaren is a clinically proven arthritis pain relief gel, which penetrates deep to target the source of pain with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medicine directly at the source. voltaren, the joy of movement. >> i had 20 years of experience as an hr professional and i had reached a ceiling, so i enrolled in umgc. i would not be the person that i am today had it not been for the partnership with umgc.

want to see me screw something up? it's on tape. all right. look at this. on the left side of the screen there, that's supervising producer kelsey, who is a genius of everything we do. the regularshowand special coverage and podcasts and everything. kelsey is fantastic. on the right, the person who's face you cannot see in the dumpy gray sweatshirt, that's me. and i am trying to record the latest episode ofrachelmaddowpresents ultra. and i'm not doing all that well at it. podcasts are very humbling. they're more difficult than you would think, at least they are for me. fortunately, kelsey and i had help that day from orzo, who is a cat. >> but then while they were mulling the desperation of their circumstances in landsberg prison, they got a bit -- they got some good news. a new lawyer. t