we are looking live at pittsburgh where vice president kamala harris is about to speak to her second to last rally. therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. right now. >> this is like the first -- kind of the first time you've been with us on these particular roller coasters, jen. you've been to campaigns through a lot of different ways in a lot of different capacities.
you've never been through one with the crazy town clown car of work that is due at msnbc. >> i have not, watching you eat jerky and nicole wallace, what should i know? >> you're better at this than all of the rest of us just arriving, just getting here this year. every election is different. i'm going to hold you here because i think we're waiting for kamala harris to speak any moment in pittsburgh. we've got katey perry knowing to be performing as well. senator fetterman spoke at this rally. i'm watching monitors trying to figure out what we're looking at here. am i right this isn't the last rally of the night, even after this one, which she hadn't started speaking at 9:00, we're
expecting yet another rally from her tonight. >> this is the night before the election. as tim walz says, you'll all sleep when you're dead, and she certainly hasn't been sleep a lot.sl they're also doing seven other kind of remote rallies across the country, which i haven't actually seen done before to really reach people in all sorts of states outside of pennsylvania, too. >> it's been -- i will say the discipline of the harris campaign in terms of the way they have just absolutely run to every a single corner of every e of the seven swing states, we've got colin allred on thisshow. in prepping i was like kamala harris went to texas to do a colin allred event. but that was the only time other than "saturday night live" anyone's been able to pry her out of the seven states. they've been so disciplined on
this stuff. today she was in allentown, pennsylvania, and then in philly tonight on the rocky steps, which is going to be a blow out rally. i've got friends add the philly rally and seems like it's going to be epic. >> we'll all be sitting on the steps talking about siit, but a part of this, as you said, her discipline going back again and again to these states. that's what you have to do. you have to shake voters hands and she did it in 107 days. son we'll see what happens, bu that is big story how she ran theho campaign. >> yeah, a very, very disciplineder campaign. certainly, if she doesn't win, it's not going to be for lack of trying. this has been an incredible shoe leather effort of heart we're
watching. i will see you tomorrow. cedric the entertainer wrapping up her in pittsburgh at the rally. let's go to it. >> hello, pittsburgh! everybody, hi. can we hear from cedric the entertainer! hey, everyone. [ cheers and applause ]
pittsburgh, are we ready to do this! are we ready to vote? are we ready to win? oh, it is good to be here tonight with all these t leader. i thank you all so very much. i want to thank representatives lee, delusio, let's send them back to the house of representatives. please send bob casey back to the united states senate. and i thank everyone for being here and taking the time out 06 your busy lives to be here this evening. i love you back. i love you back. i love you back. all right, so pittsburgh, this is it. tomorrow is election day. tomorrow is election day.
and the momentum is on our side. our campaign has tapped into the ambitions, the aspirations, and the dreams of the american people, and we know it is time for a new generation of leadership in america. and i am ready to offer that leadership as the next president of the united states. but we still got some work to do, because, look, the race is not over, and we must finish strong. so, listen, here's the thing about the hard work. we like hard work. hard work is good work. hard work is joyful work, and make no mistake, we will win.
we will win. we will win. and we will win because when you know whatwi you stand for, you know what to fight for. and we have an opportunity in this election to finally turn the page on a decade of politics driven by fear and division. we are done with that. we're done. we're done. we're exhausted with it. and pittsburgh, we are not going back. we're not going back. [ chanting "we're not going back
" ] >> and we are ready for a president who knows the true measure of a leader is not based on who you beat down, it's based on who you lift up. and instead of stewing over an enemies list, i will spend every day working on my to-do list full of priorities to improve your life because ours is not a fight against something, it is a fight for something. it is a fight for the future, and it is a fight for freedom like the fundamental freedom of a woman f to make decisions abo her own body and not have her government tell her what to do. and when congress passes a bill to restore reproductive freedom
nationwide, as president of the united states, i will proudly sign it into law. proudly. proudly. so, america, i am asking for your vote. i am asking for your vote. and here -- and here is my pledge to you. as president, i pledge to seek common ground and common sense solutions to the challenges you face. i am not looking to score political points. i am looking to make progress. i pledge to listen to those who will be impacted by the decisions i make. and we are not going back. [ chanting "we're not going back
" ] and here's the thing, guys, we are fighting t for a democracy. and in a democracy true leadership understands that the leader listens to the experts and listens to people who disagree with them. i willdi listen to people who disagreewh with me because i do not believe that people who disagree with me are the enemy. in fact, i will give them a seat at the table. that is what real leaders do. that is what strong leaders do. and i pledge to always put country above party and self and to be a president for all americans. so pittsburgh, that is ply pledge to you. and to you i ask, then, who here has a plan to vote?
fantastic. okay, so help spread the word then. polls are open here in pennsylvania tomorrow from 7:00 a.m.e to 8:00 p.m. you know that. go to iwillvote.com for all the information you need including when and where to vote and where to drop off your mail ballot because we need everyone to vote, pennsylvania. you will make the difference in this election. you will make the difference. and friends, listen, we are all here together because we love our country. we love our country. and when you love something, you fight for it. and i do believe it is one of the highest forms of patriotism -- i love you back. love you back. and one of the highest forms of our love f our country is to, then, fight for the ideals of
our country and to fight to realize the promise of america. so pittsburgh, listen, we've got one day left to get this done. so now we've got to get out to vote. let's reach out the next 24 hours toxt family and friends a classmates and neighbors and coworkers. and as we do a that, let us reay be true to what our campaign has been about from the very start. and on that, i say please let us be intentional about building community. let us be intentional about building coalitions. because here's the thing, so much about these last several yearsas has been about trying t make people point their fingers at each other, to have americans point their fingers at each other, to try to mage people feel alone and feel small.
but let us do the work as we work towards thise win of building up community and coalition and reminding everyone that we have so much more in common than what separates us. let s that be our goal. and let us remind everyone your vote is voice and your voice is your power. so one last time, pittsburgh, i ask you, are you ready to make your voices heard? do we believe in freedom? do we believe in opportunity? do we believe in the promise of america? and are we ready to fight for it? and when we fight, we win. god bless you and god bless the
united states of america. god bless. ♪ freedom, freedom where are you because i need freedom too ♪ >> vice president kamala harris this is the second to last campaignnd event she is going t do. this isgo pittsburgh, pennsylvania. she's at the kerry blast furnishes, which is a massive former steel mill site in pittsburgh that is now a national n historic landmark, giving remarks here. you can hear that she is deep into ae. long day of campaignin that has come at the end of a long week of campaigning that has come at the end of 107 long days of 1 campaigning. you can hear the hoarseness in her voice, but still a high energyhe performance from this candidate today. f high energy, clearly confident,
clearly still enjoying herself. a huge crowd in pittsburgh. you can see the glee on people's faces to be catching a glimpse of hertc as we head towards midnight, as we head toward the start formally of election night. later tonight one more stop, she's going toto be in philly t steps of the rocky steps, the steps of the art museum in philly everybody knows from the rocky movie. she's going to be there at the very end of the night, heading there right now as she wraps up this event in pittsburgh. all right, we're going to take a quick break. when we come back, we have our wholeshowfor you.or it's our last fullshowbefore the election. i think it's fair to say it's going to be pretty different before every other lastshowyou've seen before the election either on this network or others, that's because i'm a weirdo. bigshow. colin allred is back with us tonight live.
we've got a lot to get to. right back after this break. stay with us.ri with vaseline, hydrated skin is just the beginning. level up to even toned, radiant skin. new vaseline radiant x body lotion with 1% niacinamide. level up to even toned skin.


your business needs a network it can count on... new vaseline radiant x body even during the unexpected. power's out! -power's out! comcast business has you covered, with wifi backup to help keep you up and running. wifi's up. let's power on! let's power on! -let's power on! it's from the company with 99.9% network reliability. let's power on! power on with the leader in connectivity. stay connected with comcast business internet and wifi back-up or get started for $49.99 a month.
plus ask how to get up to a $500 prepaid card. call today!   happy election eve, you guys. how are you marking election eve? may i suggest deep breaths may i suggest hydrate something may i suggest putting the beer back in the fridge and the wine back on the shelf. there will be plenty of time for that some other time, but maybe not right now. i don't think that's the right way to handle stress right now. you can do it later if you want to, but this is an unusual time that we are in our country and therefore in all our individual lives. we're not used to the secret service having to put up fencing around the u.s. capitol and the white house and the vice president's residence before an election. we're not used to stores in washington, d.c. boarding up
their windows, right? we're not used to governors putting the national guard on standby because an election is getting underway. this is not how national elections have ever been before in the modern history of our up country, but in the trump era of the republican party, that is what it means now to have a national election. and so for us americans, this is our time in american history, this is part of the legacy we will lead to future generations. but right now on the eve of this election like no other, forgive me for just advising. forgive me for just saying it like a psa, we all need to be at our best and we all need to be ready for everything. so that's why i say deep breaths, hydrate, get a good night's sleep. don't stress out. also don't check out because our country needs us all right now. and not just through this time tomorrow night. our country is going to need us all in the days ahead and for an
uncertain period of time. and so now really isn't the time to fall apart or to wallow in stress or succumb to it and check out. now really is the time to try to get your head on straight, to try to get yourself ready for what we know will be some uncertainty and also fast moving news. now's the time to keep your wits about you. and i know you're saturated in polling data at this point. i know you can recite the candidates closing itinries. she'll be closing out the campaign on the famous steps from the movie rocky at a rally in philly. you all know that. the time polls in the race both nationally and in the swing states, bottom line candidates are tied or at least within the margin of error. in just a few cases they've got one of candidates a point or two
outside the margin of error, but honestly it's a tie. we could spend last night, we could spend election eve going through that in detail, but we're going to get real vote counts starting less than 24 hours from now, so at this point i think why bother? so let's talk instead tonight about something that is in this election but i don't think is getting that much attention. and i think on election eve it may be the time to think about it. it's a national security story about this election. we're also going to talk about a crime story that relates to this election. and i'llshowyou what i mean by needing to take care of yourself right now, not just through tomorrow, not just through election day, but beyond that as well. and i want toshowyou what i mean by that by talking about a national security story and a crime story. we'll start benational security. so today, the day before our u.s. presidential election, today a whole new country just got involved in the combat in the war in ukraine.
ukraine announced today that for the first time its soldiers launched an attack against troops from a foreign country that russia has just brought in to support its own army on the border between russia and ukraine. russia has brought in another country now. they've brought in troops from north korea to fight their war in ukraine now. and the initial reports about this maybe a couple thousand north korean soldiers were in russia, maybe they were there to observe the performance of north korean weapons that russia was using in its war, maybe they were observers, and then it became quickly clearly they weren't just observers. there were too many of them for that. no, it was 2,000, no, maybe it was 10,000, maybe reports of 12,000 north korean troops. they're not observers. they're combat troops, and russia has put them on at the front line at the border between
russia and ukraine. and ukraine has said for the first time they fired on those north korean troops. so now the biggest land war in europe since world war ii, 80 years ago, it now also involves significant combat forces from another country, from north korea. and they are in the fight. they are in combat. russia, of course, has been using weapons already from north korea. they've been using weapons already from iran as well. russia has the biggest nuclear arsenal in the world. they keep threatening to use it. they've now form aden alinux with the world's other two rogue states who have either gone nuclear or tried to, north korea and iran. and it's not just them. of all the october surprises for this year for our election, and there's been a bunch from the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff going on the record to confirm they both believe trump is literally a fascist and he
wants to rule the united states as a fascist dictator to the shock iowa poll showing kamala harris, the democrat, winning in what's supposed to be a solid red state. to the release of a tape recording of disgraced con man and rapist jeffrey epstein saying he and donald trump were best friends for a decade, to the collapse of trump's ability to fill a room, hiss closing string of empty rally venues. i mean, there's been so many strange twists and surprises and shocks at the end of this election campaign. but of all the october surprises this year, this is the one that stuck to me like someone pinned it to me like a dart, "the wall street journal" reporting that, quote, late last year the kremlin made a request to the owner of the starlink satellite system to, quote, not activate starlink, that satellite system over taiwan. the request was made by vladimir
putin personally to the owner of the starlink satellite system, and that request was made to him, quote, as a favor to chinese leader xi jinping. biggest war in europe since world war ii, he's threatening to nuke anyone who tries to stop him. he's got iran on his side supplying him weapons for that war. he's got north korean on that side supplying him weapons and send him more than 10,000 combat soldiers to fight in his army, and he's apparently passed along a friend request, a favor request from the communist dictator of china. hey, starlink, don't turn on starlink satellites over taiwan. taiwan, of course, which is also an ally of the united states. and per "the wall street journal," the owner of starlink appears to have agreed to do this favor for the chinese dictator, the request passed on down by his friend, the russian dictator, against this american
ally. or at least per "the wall street journal" we can at least say the starlink service is, in fact, not activated over taiwan after putin expressly requested it not be activated over taiwan as a favor to him and a favor to the leader of china. why is this an election story? this is an election story because the owner of starlink, the guy who's on the phone with the russian dictator in this story, he is currently what appears to be the de facto ceo of the donald trump for president campaign. not just funding his campaign personally to the tune of over $100 million, not just personally managing donald trump's ground game for voter turnout, but also turning his own social media company, twitter, into an all trump all the time propaganda machine that amplifies even the most obviously foreign disinformation boosting trump and targeting his
democratic opponents. walter isaacson reported in his recent book on elon musk, that musk was asked by the kremlin to not let ukraine use the starlink satellite system over the black sea where ukraine was targeting russian navy ships to sink them. "the wall street journal" reports that musk is now in frequent and secret -- frequent and secret communication with putin and the russian government, and also that it is putin's russian troops who are now using elon musk's starlink service on the battlefield in their war against our ally, ukraine, even as he cuts ukraine off from that service at key strategic moments. so you see where this is going? happy election eve, right? i mean trump himself says he, quote, doesn't talk about his secret communications with putin. bob woodward's latest book
reporting that trump himself has been in frequent secret communication with putin since trump left office and now while he is trying to get back into office. while putin is leading a new world axis, not just leading a war against a war against our ally, ukraine, but leading a new world axis against north korea, iran, and china against the united states. putin leading that axis against the united states with the assistance of one particular american who holds multibillion dollar sensitive defense and space contracts with the u.s. government and who has mostly taken over the ground game operations and the funding of trump's presidential campaign. so like i said, pace yourself. i mean, if trump wins the election, we pretty clearly are going to be joining the axis, right? these countries that most want
america destroyed, that most want to remove the united states from the world stage, that want to destroy us as a country and diminish us as much as they can, this axis led by russia will be joining it, if trump is elected. trump says our so-called allies he doesn't like, well, he's full of unreserved, totally unqualified praise for the dictators in this axis, right? he has telegraphed we will switch sides in the ukraine war, meaning we'll switch to putin's side, where he's now using north korean troops in battle. trump is full of praise for the north korean dictator. he has telegraphed that we will leave nato, that we'll collapse nato. the countries in the world who are most violently opposed to the united states and most determined to seek the diminishment of america and the end of american influence on the world stage, they, if trump wins, will have their president
installed with elon musk's help while musk is in direct and secret communication with vladimir putin who heads up that axis. so pace yourself, right? if that happens, if trump wins, that's what's going to happen to america on the world stage, and americans who think that's a bad idea are going to have a lot of work to do. your country will need you. but also think about if he loses. if trump loses, given that, given what i just described, america's got a lot of work to do along these lines as well. because just as a presidential campaign, this is a national security disaster and one that president harris is going to have to cleanup and quickly. i mean you really can't have the head of a company that is the primary rocket launcher for the defense department and nasa, you can't have the head of that company in secret communications with america's worst enemy while
america's enemy is actively waging a war against one of our allies, especially once you learn he's using his businesses to help the other side, to help russia in that war. and apparently to do secret favors for china against our other allies like taiwan. i mean that -- that can't be. i mean, also just for what it's worth, presumably a guy reported to have regularly used ketamine plus lsd, cocaine, ecstasy, and sclooms and smokes weed on a national podcast, presumably he can't have security clearance, a personal security clearance. but you definitely can't have a security clearance let alone that much leverage over american national security if you are doing anti-american diplomatic favors for dictators with whom you are in secret communication. so buckle up, even if trump doesn't win, the defense department and nasa are going to
need a new arrangement for all their rockets and for all the multibillion dollar contracts elon musk's companies have with the u.s. government. the u.s. government is going to have to either, i mean, unwind from all of those contracts. or elon musk's companies are going to have to unwind from him. this is an untenable reality in national security terms. now that we know what we know about elon musk, this election regardless of who wins, has produced a national security problem that is going to be a huge new thing for our country to deal with likely with tons of drama, and it will start as soon as we've gotten an election result either way. so pace yourself if for no other reason than to be ready for that. let's also talk about crime in this election. right, everybody's talking about the polls, i know. let's talk about national security and about crime. you've seen all these headlines in the lead-up to election day tomorrow, particularly today.
there's a ton of these headlines about right-wing pro-trump groups planning to sow chaos around polling sites and the election. right-wing pro-trump groups forming an army to try to stop the counting of votes. paramilitary pro-trump groups planning to menace people. pro-trump groups planning violence around the election, bringing back all the things they tried to do in 2020 to overthrow that election, up to and including the violence they tried on january 6th in washington to stop the certification of the vote. see all these headlines about how it's all coming back, they're going to try all of it again. you know what all of that is? all of that is crime. violence of any kind for any reason is a crime. intimidating election workers or public officials or voters is a crime. paramilitary militias are themselves a crime. the leader of the proud boys is serving 22 years in federal
prison right now. even the fake electors thing, impersonating electors, that whole fake electors scheme was a crime. it was a crime in 2020 and just because you're thinking about trying it is a second time, done make it anymore legal than it was back then. law enforcement didn't know what these pro-trump groups were going to try to do in 2020. law enforcement didn't know what these guys were going to do in 2020 anymore than the pro-trump guys did. but now law enforcement knows what these pro-trump groups and the trump campaign are going to do. and if these guys are planning the exact same set of crimes in 2024, they're just planning on doing more of them in more places, this stuff doesn't get any less illegal. it just means there's going to be more arrests. tonight in philadelphia the district attorney there just gave a news conference reminding anybody who's excited about committing crimes tomorrow to try to mess with the election,
he gave a press conference reminding that those crimes will be treated as crimes. just because you're thinking about doing your crimes for donald trump doesn't mean that they're not crimes and you won't be going to prison for committing them. to watch this from the philly d.a., i mean inject this straight into my veins, honestly, but also, please, just to watch this. >> i want people to be reassured when they get up tomorrow to go vote if they have not voted already, that everybody in this city is working and has been working for months to make sure there will be nothing tough about that experience and nothing to fear in that experience. but i also want to be clear. anybody who thinks it's time to play militia, "f" around and find out. anybody who thinks it's time to insult, to deride, to mistreat, to threaten people, "f" around and find out. we do have the cuffs. we do have the jail cells.
we do have the philly juries and we have the state prisons. if you're going to try to turn an election into some sort of coercion, bully people, try to erase votes, if you're going to try any of that nonsense, we're not playing. "f" around and find out. >> pennsylvania officials also circulating the hot line you can call to report voter intimidation in that state. "f" around and find out. we're not playing. that applies to anybody who wants to commit crimes targeting voters or polling sites or anything else about our election. and it doesn't just hold in philly, it holds everywhere. it also applies to anybody trying to paper over those crimes, to try to give them an air of legality. there's a reason why rudy giuliani is not only under indictment right now, he also no longer owns any of his worldly
possessions because rudy giuliani used his position as donald trump's lawyer to come after innocent poll workers in georgia who have now literally sued him out of his house and home. just a few days ago thursday, halloween, the lawyer who quarterbacked the fake elector scheme for donald trump was indefinitely barred from ever practicing law in new york state again. i mean, while they're taking away the law license of the guy who organized the fake electors last time, which got all the fake electors arrested, here's politico.com reporting today that republicans are nevertheless bringing all the fake electors back again to try it one more time. whereupon, let me let you know, it is still illegal and you're all going to get arrested again. as the philly d.a. said, "f" around and find out, nobody's playing. trump's fake elector guy kenneth
cheesbro pled guilty and had his law license suspended. trump lawyer rudy giuliani has been indicted and disbarred and irrevocably and profoundly bankrupted for life, and that is just what happened to the lawyers. messing with an election in the united states of america is a crime. this election there's a lot to pay attention to, so pace yourself. people are going to try to rerun 2020 and interfere in the election and try to use violence to get their way. they are going to get arrested and they are going to go to prison. and we are going to have that crime story to deal with if they try it. we are also going to have a big national security mess to cleanup just from the trump campaign even if harris wins. there's so much we're going to need to stand up for and be ready for, and it does not stop
tomorrow no matter what happens tomorrow. so, my friends, deep breaths. hydrate. beer back in the fridge, wine back on the shelf, we have lots of work to do. tomorrow's just the start. do. tomorrow's just the start.



check out this map of where kamala harris has campaigned since september. the bigger the circle, the more
events she's done. you can see the harris campaign has been incredibly disciplined about where they're sending the vice president. 11 events in wisconsin, 18 in michigan, 20 in pennsylvania. just a vast, vast majority of her events have been in the big seven swing states except, wait, what's that one little circle, that tiny little circle in texas? the harris campaign, i imagine, doesn't have high hopes they will win the presidential race in texas. i mean, maybe, who knows, but that would be a really big deal. still, though, on this most disciplined of presidential campaigns vice president harris went herself to texas anyway late last month, late in october where she held a huge rally in texas, and she campaigned with this guy, with democratic congressman colin allred who's running a tight race to try to unseat republican senator ted cruz. kamala harris going to texas to campaign for colin allred. it's a very big veer of what has
otherwise been a very, very tight slalom through the swing states, and it shows you that this incredibly disciplined, incredibly focused campaign thought it was worth it to spend time and resources in texas because they think this could be a winnable senate seat for a democrat in texas. joining us now is the man himself, congressman colin allred, he is the democratic nominee for texas senate. congressman, good to see you. thanks so much. >> thanks for having me on,rachel. i appreciate it. >> is there aplas for you to win this seat? >> rach, something special is happening in texas from campaigning with liz cheney to george bush expressing his admiration for me, my constituent, to what's been happening with these texas women coming forward telling thar stories about the horrific abortion ban we're dealing with here ted cruz is responsible for. we're going to beat ted cruz tomorrow, and when we do, it's going to be a win for 30 million
texans. >> let me ask you about that abortion ban. obviously texas has one of the most restrictive aborn bans in the country, one of the most aggressive and mean-spirited bans and some of the legislation and prosecution decisions by texas law enforcement officials have captured the nation's imagination, not just texans but everybody's eyes are on texas and how cruel it's been and what the consequences has been for texas families, texas women. a lot of people have said it's hard to poll on the impact of that, it's a little bit of a black box, we may be missing not just the impact among women but the impact among men and women and men who are concerned about what these bans mean. are you seeing that legible in an internal way in your internal polling or do you know what to expect there? >> it's dangerous to be pregnant in texas now. when we have over 100 ob/gyns
writing open letters to the leaders of the state saying this is not sustain, when we have stories of texas women who have died who should not have died when there are 26,000 texas women forced to give birth to their rapist's child, this is a conversation. i was talking to the men in the crowd because i'm a father, my wife and i have had two boys here in dallas in the last five years, and i can't imagine how we would have felt if the doctor had come in and said there's a problem with the baby, there's nothing i could do because ted cruz thinks he knows better. i think you know enough about texas to know we believe in freedom. that's one of the core tenants for us, and this is not it. and that's why we're going to beat ted cruz. >> congressman, let me ask you one process question. we have seen that fewer texans voted early this year compared to 2020. there's no apple to apples comparison to 2020 because it was such a strange year with
covid. do you expect the overall voter turnout is going to be lower this year or so many people are going to turn out on election day people are going to prepare for big lines? >> i don't think it's going to be a big election day. as you said 2020 we had an extra week of early voting, that's a big deal in texas. but we also can shape who comes out tomorrow. so i want folks to sign up, to volunteer with us, to go to colinallred.com. there's still time to make sure we get across that line. like i said it's not going to be a win for party or individually, it's going to be a win for 30 million texans who wants a senator who care about all of us. >> the next senator from texas, at least he says he will be right here tonight on election eeb. sir, good to luck to you. let us know how the long lines
go and we'll be checking in with you tomorrow as results come in. thank you, sir. >> thanks,rachel. >> all right, we'll be bac stay with us. k sta with us. i recommend salonpas. it's good medicine. ♪ hisamitsu ♪



so the last time donald trump ran for president, he lost. he spent the weeks between that election and moving day trying to overturn the results along with the private machinations and the arm twisting. trump and his allies filed 65 separate lawsuits in search of a
court that would somehow help them throw out the election result and keep him in power. we all know how that came out. well, in this election a group called the 65 project, which is named for that failed effort. the 65 project in this election their mission is to dissuade lawyers from pursuing trump's bogus, frivolous claims about the election, to forcibly, forcefully dissuade lawyers from playing a part in that kind of thing for a second time around. the managing director of the 65 project joins us now here on election eve. michael, thank you for being here. appreciate your time. >> good to be here, thanks,rachel. >>o i'm struck as we head to election day tomorrow even in just recent days we have head yet another of trump's lawyers have his law license suspended, kenneth cheesebro in new york city. he's lost all his worldly goods
in addition to being disbarred. do you think a deterrent has been established heading into this next election cycle for lawyers to do not this stuff anymore when trump tells them to in. >> i do,rachel. i think we that in a few ways rudy giuliani, ken cheesbro last week and including names you wouldn't recognize. in addition to that we've seen it in perhaps measurable ways, mitchell, one of the most strident election denying attorneys saying she could not find an attorney in pennsylvania who's willing to go on with a lawsuit with her. she had to recruit somebody out of minnesota. the 65 project had filed ten bar complaints in pennsylvania, and we think that's part of the reason why she struggled was because of our efforts. we saw kari lake saying the same thing in 2022. she had to practically beg lawyers to represent her because they were worried about facing
discipline if they represented her. we've seen some success. we think there's been a strong turn effect and we're eager to continue. >> trump is expected to falsely claim victory, to baselessly claim victory before the results of the election are known. his allies in many ways has set the stage to claim the election is stolen or an outcome is unknowable because they created an illusion of chaos or tried to create real chaos themselves. as you've followed with such detail what they tried in 2020, you created some of the consequences for those lawyers who participated in some of those 2020 schemes, what concerns you the most about ways they may try to muck with the election this time around starting tomorrow? >> well, the concern is as you kind of named, they are not trying to win the lawsuits that they file. if their objective was to win them, the deterrent effect would have been created long ago because they lost case after case after case. their effort there is
propaganda. they're using the lawsuits as a sheen to create this gloss over baseless, fraudulent, predetermined claims of a rigged election. and then they're hoping that that credibility, which would be lacking if it were coming from somebody with hair dye coming down his forehead speaking in front of a landscaping parking lot or someone in an orange vest in a garbage truck, they're using the court system to create that sheen, that gloss of credibility. that's the concern i have is he's going to continue to use the legal system as a propaganda tool, which is why we have to create that deterrent effect, accountability, because otherwise they won't be deterred. >> you know, one of the lessons in fighting tyranny that tim snider tells in his book on tyranny is that professional institutions, professional associations need to police themselves to avoid becoming tool of a tyrant. project 65 is an exemplar of
that in the legal profession that means a lot. i think it's been an exemplar not only for lawyers but other professional organizations and institutions in our society about how to stand up to this stuff. michael teter, managing director of the 65 project, thanks so much for joining us. >> thank you. >> later tonight kamala harris will hold the final rally of her campaign in philly. look at this. it's not started yet. the crowd is already huge. we're going to bring you this event in philadelphia live tonight on msnbc. of course tomorrow i'll be back here with all my colleagues starting at 6:00 p.m. eastern. we'll be going to whenever 30 and bring extra snacks for the occasion. it's going to be the most exciting night of the year and one of the longest. we can't wait. we were made for this. hydrate, get a good night's sleep tonight. your country needs you. "way too early" is up next.   so tonight i ask