that qualified for the final in only two make it but still, like i said, knew her chances of qualifying were a long shot. that is in a matter to the crowd of more than 17,000 who to their feet as she exited the pool. did not matter to her 10-year- old daughter watching in the stands. certainly did not matter to her and did not matter to those of us watching at home. because her story is an incredible reminder never to give up and a reminder of what is still possible at any age. as she set herself, i want taks and just know they can have a lot more in the older chapters of their life. that does it for me tonight. therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. hi,rachel. >> on a day that i have been feeling particularly old and therefore no longer well suited to a strenuous life and job, that was exactly what i needed to hear, jen. thank you so much. >> she's so some spiring.
we'll be watching her. >> on a day where i needed it. thank you, my friend. thank you. >> and thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. really happy to have you here. so have you watched the sopranos? if not, hit pause and watch all seasons and then come back in a couple weeks and start this again. the first season of the sopranos is 13 episodes long. the sopranos obviously is one of the greatest achievements ever in american drama, in contention for one of the greatest television shows ever made in any country on any subject. but in season one of the sopranos you have to get through like half the whole season, i think you have to get to the seventh episode or something before you get anything that seems like it is a back story on your lead character. so, i mean, here's a story about a man in therapy, yes, he's a gangster, but he's a man in therapy. you think right from the very start of the very first episode
you're going to get, you know, therapy speak, tell me about your childhood. it's not until seven episodes into it that we finally get a glimpse of tony soprano as a little kid. in that scene, here's young tony, his uncle comes looking for tony's dad. tony's dad hops in a car and takes off with the uncle. tony himself, the kid, ends up missing the school bus. and while he's not at school, he ends up finding his dad and his uncle and seeing hot they were up to. basically sneaks up on them. what he sees is his dad and his uncle just beating the bejesus out of a guy on the street corner. and this happens in episode seven. then it's two more seasons, you're all the way into season three of the whole series when you get another flashback to tony as a little kid with his dad. and this time, once again, young tony is not supposed to be
there. he has snuck in. his dad doesn't know he's there. his dad goes to collect from a local butcher and the dad not only beats the living daylights out of the butcher, he takes a meat cleaver to the guy. it's absolutely horrible, impossible to watch. and young tony, young tony soprano, he sees it. yes, the sopranos is a gangster tvshow, so of course there's going to be violence, but it's also a really, really good gangster tvshow, and so it's never that simple. in the sopranos we get these flashbacks to give us back story on our main character, but also basically to understand what's wrong with tony soprano. because of course, he idolized his father. we learn soon that he inherited his own position in the mafia from his father and built on that position to become a boss himself. as an adult, a big tough mob
boss, as our hero/antihero of the series, tony also faints all the time. he has panic attacks. and he has done this most ungangsterly thing and put himself in therapy. what is the matter with mob boss tony soprano? we romanticize gangsters and the way they live in american life. tony soprano romanticizes his father. basically as an abstraction as a gangster, but a small part of the genius of what david chase did in the sopranos is in these flashbacks which he makes you wait for and wait for, what you get, what young tony soprano sees as a kid, what he sees his dad doing is disgusting, it's gross. and it hurts tony soprano to see it. it kind of breaks him. what young tony sees as a kid, what happens in these flashbacks is not romantic. it's not cool.
it's just violence. it's menace. it is unprincipled, unromantic thuggery. it's not art or sport or anything with any elegance to it. it's just a mess. it's gross. and as the series unspools you come to learn and sort of a complex way, this is part of why tony soprano is the sad sick bastard he is and also why he's doomed as a character. gangster themed tv and movie violence is something that we are very good at in this country. and we all know all the tropes. making business people pay protection to the mob. and if they don't pay, their protection money, the mob guys beat them up and trash their business and maybe even kill them. the mob guys running the card games and the other gambling rackets where sure, the odds are against you while you're playing but the odds are you're going to get killed if you get in debt to them. and extortion and stealing and prostitution and drug dealing and armed robbery.
we have all seen it in a million shows. and you can create all sorts of romance and drama around it, and we absolutely do as a country, but when it is done right, like in the sopranos, the irreducibly thuggish brute boring violence of it never goes away and messes people up in an unsexy, lasting, awful, unromantic way. it makes big tough mob bosses built like james gandolfini straight up faint, which is not cool in so many ways. we're living through an era in our country's political life right now which is not politics. and if you want to call it the most romantic possible thing, i think you could call it revolutionary. just like gangsterism is a familiar trope for us in our favorite american drama, we also romanticize revolution and revolutionaries as much as any country on earth.
what we are contending with in our politics right now is a movement that is not doing normal politics and is not competing in normal political terms. they're trying to end the american system of government. they're trying to bring about a revolution against the american system of government and against the united states of america, and in this story, we're the americans. so yes, being revolutionary sounds very cool in the abstract, just like being gangster sounds very cool in the abstract. but in the specific, what they're actually offering is boring, because it's just gross force. it's the end of politics. let's just do it by force. because physically, we mean it just the way we're saying it, we mean it just the way you're hearing it. we're coming for you. >> mr. fbi tough guy, why is he
wetting himself, why does he wet himself on national tv. he's damn scared because he understands the end is near. so brother, you and all the other people, the torturous, these are torturous conversations we're having. don't torture yourself. get your passport, get out of the country because we're coming. guess what, bro, you ain't going to like it. comey, all of you. go ahead, go to the ends of the earth. we will hunt you down and bring you back. >> drive the vermin out of 1600 pennsylvania avenue. biden, you and your crime family are nothing but trash. >> for joe biden and dr. jill biden and hunter biden, all in the biden -- they're a bunch of feral dogs. it's a family of feral dogs. we're going to have to fumigate the lies of joe biden, the treason of joe biden, and how enfeebled he is. after that, it's not the tapes.
we're coming after lisa monaco, merrick garland, the senior members of doj, that have prosecuted president trump. jack smith. >> that's where you come in. you're the vanguard of this revolution. we're going to do what the romans did to carthage. we're going to salt the earth around it. we're going to rebuild something else. there will be something that comes up and is rebuilt along the lines that are appropriate. we have to go back to the beginning. we've got to go back to russia gate. we have to go back to who did that, we have to go back to mueller's commission. we have to go back to andrew weissmann and msnbc and "the new york times" and all of it. right? every fbi agent, all the cia, dhs, chris wray, all of them. it's going to be a new day. and maga will run things. they're going to know that maga's not only ascended, maga is in charge. it's very simple. victory or death.
>> so this isn't, you know, red meat for the base. this isn't retribution. this is retribution as much as tony soprano's dad was providing protection to the local butcher. this is not a response to anything. what this is is just menace and physical threat, right? it's not politics. it's just power, just force. they're just promising violence. that is what they're offering in this election. this is how we should run the country now. we will hunt you down. and you'll know that we're in power. and we're going to get rid of law enforcement. we're going to salt the earth, and we're just going to hunt you down. this is not some random right wing media guy. this is the man who was the campaign manager for donald trump and also the senior white house adviser to the former president who is now their nominee again. and it is -- it's not like he's the only one saying this.
this is what they are offering the american public, and they love it. they're super excited to be getting done with politics, getting right to the force and violence part of it. >> the next six months is going to be intense. and we need to strap on our -- let's see -- what do we want to strap on? we're going to strap on our seat belt. we're going to put on our helmet. or your kari lake ball cap. we're going to put on the armor of god. and maybe strap on a glock on the side of us just in case. >> we will throw out the sick political class that hates our country. we will rout the fake news media and liberate america from these villains once and for all. >> don't you think for a second he's not going to unleash hell
on all of his political enemies. this is where we are. and now we have to finish it. >> we have to finish it. once and for all. they keep saying things like that. once and for all, finish it, vanquish them. this is not politics. in a political contest, you compete against your fellow citizens with whom you have political disagreements, the rival political party, whoever loses that fair race concedes, literally concedes, and then they come back. they have the opportunity to come back in the next election cycle and compete against you again. in real politics nothing is ever finished. you never take power once and for all. your enemies are not vanquished. but they are not trying to win a political contest. they're trying to do away with political contests in the united states of america. which might be why they're not putting much energy into the normal way of competing in this year's political contest. you may have seen this weekend, the former president went to detroit, which of course, seems
like a normal thing for a political candidate to do. big city and big swing state, and he went to a black church, trying to appeal to a demographic where he has room to grow, but he goes to this black church in detroit and his campaign does not take steps to avoid the pews being completely filled with white trump supporters. on the day, the message of his supposed campaign, is he's trying to appeal to black voters, that's the whole point of doing this photo op, he goes straight from that venue, stuffed with white people, to a conference hosted by this guy, who has been in the news for the last few months for saying, quote, we made a huge mistake when we passed the civil rights act in the 1960s. saying that he thinks black people are not qualified to be airline pilots, that he worries if he's on a flight and sees that the pilot is black. who has been posting things like, quote, whiteness is great, on social media, who has been hosting guests on his podcast to talk about how black people are inherently biologically inferior
and incapable of advanced intelligence. someone who said literally mlk, meaning dr. martin luther king jr., quote, mlk was awful. not a good person. so on the day your campaign message is, hey, black voters, look at me. aren't i appealing? going from the black church that's inexplicably full of white people, right to -- right from there to go do an appearance with the mlk was awful in the civil rights act was a mistake guy. if that's how you're running your campaign, you're not trying very hard in normal campaign terms. but they're not trying very hard in normal campaign terms. they're not trying very hard to compete on normal political appeals. what they're trying to do instead is take power by menacing and chasing out of the country anyone who opposes their leader. destroy anyone who contradicts them, let alone anyone who
deigns to compete against him. if you're done with politics and you just want to be in charge forever, by force, then no one can be allowed to contest the leader or to question the leader. importantly, nobody can be allowed to offer any alternative source of authority to the leader. so there can't be journalists who know stuff and report it. there of course can't be opposition politicians. are you kidding? there can't ever be anyone who runs against him. that would mean taking your life in your hands. there can't be law enforcement that does anything independent of what the leader wants. the whole government has to work entirely for the leader. there's no government providing information and services like we're used to. there's no state, just the deep state which is terrible and evil and against the leader and it must be purged. replaced just with people he likes and who do what he wants. the government cannot have a civil service that has subject
matter experts. because everybody has to work only for the leader. >> we should be recommending you to be prosecuted. we should be writing a criminal referral because you should be prosecuted for crimes against humanity. you belong in prison, dr. fauci. >> in the trump era in the republican party, this is what it's like to be the nation's most esteemed public health official. the nation's top subject matter expert on infectious disease. dr. anthony fauci was the head of the national institute of allergy and infectious disease for 38 years. he has a new book that's out tomorrow called "on call, a doctor's journey in public service." and in that book he says in the early days of the hiv/aids pandemic, the aggressive hate mail he got was, quote, homophobically motivated, criticizing me for wasting time trying to save mostly gay men, who, quote, brought this on
themselves by their supposedly abhorrent behavior, with ebola, he says the hate mail seems to be related to the perception by white supremacist types that i favored the health of black americans over the health of our country. that's the kind of hate mail he got in the aids era, in the ebola era. in this era in response to our most recent infectious disease threat in the context of the trump movement on the american political right, now the torrent of hate and threat is of a different order and a different magnitude. >> he needs to be dealt with. the criminal gang leaders, the big heads of the central banks, pfizer head, fauci, all of them that lie to trump, we know created the disinfo, already had had the vaccine ready years before they released the virus. they need to go to prison for the rest of their lives. it is the right thing to do to
be executed. i will pull the lever. i will say that. i don't want people to do work i wouldn't do. >> dr. fauci's new book, he tells the story of his decades in public service, serving seven different presidents starting with ronald reagan. helping lead the response not only to hiv and aids domestically and around the globe, but also to ebola and also zika and also sars and also even the anthrax attacks after 9/11. a 450-page book, it comes out tomorrow, as i mentioned, it is fascinating, every new crisis is a detective story and a science thriller and a political potboiler all rolled into one. but the last 100 pages or so are about the covid crisis. and also about serving, trying to handle the covid crisis under the most recent republican president. under donald trump, and even though that part of dr. fauci's career in public service is over, he retired in 2022 after
serving as president biden's chief medical adviser, even though he is now out of public service after all of these decades, the trump movement and its members in congress and its supporters in the media are still going after dr. fauci as aggressively as ever, if not more so, even two years after he left government. because he epitomizes one of the things they are trying to destroy. one of the things they need to destroy in their revolutionary war against the american system of government. it is not that they disagree with him. it is not that they misunderstand. it is that he represents expertise. authority. earned by expertise. the way we sort of shorthand that in life is he's a person who knows what he's talking about. and nat, of course, is toxic for their political project. that cannot be allowed to stand. and so he is still in the bull's
eye for them, even now. >> i would love to see the book thrown at him, i would love to see him put in jail. >> you say he lied to congress. and should be arrested? isn't that going a little far? >> well, i don't know that i said he should be arrested but i like the idea. >> they're still going after him, even now. this is from the book, from august of 2020. he says, quote, i had been absent from work for a few days because i had a benign polyp removed from one of my vocal cords. i was happy to be sitting in my desk in my office, about 10:30 a.m. when i picked up a letter off one of the stacks. it bore a jacksonville, florida, address. it was type written in an unusual font but otherwise looked like fan mail i got every day. most of the time people ask me to sign a baseball card or an index card. sometimes occasionally he says, quote, they told me they hated me. i opened the top of the envelope
with a letter opener and took out a single sheet of folded white paper. as i unfolded it, fine white powder shot up from the paper and drifted down onto my face, my tie, my shirt, my hands, my pants, my desk, and my chair. i instantly feared anthrax or worse. i immediately shouted to my assistant, kim, do not come into my office. go get george and brett, my security detail who were posted down the hall. they sprinted to the doorway of my office yelling don't move, stay where you are, don't come out because you'll contaminate everything else. follow their instructions, i put the letter and envelope into a plastic bag. george called the nih hazmat team. they had me remove all of my clothes which also went into a plastic bag and they sprayed me down with chemical foam. i thought this is insane. there i was standing naked being sprayed down by guys in space suits. my fate hinged on a call giving
me a preliminary analysis of the powder. there were three possibilities it was a hoax, it was anthrax spores and i would require four weeks of cipro, but i would probably survive, or it was ricin and no matter what i did, i would be dead in a few days. ricin, which is formed from the seeds of caster beans is lethal when injected. christine, his wife, and our daughters were terrified i might die. jenny was also furious, which is probably a reflect of her fear and concern for me. megan and ally called multiple times asking are you all right? they all dreaded i might say i was starting to feel sick. my own emotions were complicated. i felt like a complete idiot for opening what in retrospect was a suspicious letter. i was fatalistic about the outcome. my mother died at age 56. my father at 97. at age 79, myself, i had lived a long, full, happy life of achievement. my legal papers were in order because they're always in order.
as a physician, i held the hands of many people as they died. i do not fear death, but i was not ready to leave this earth yet, not by a long shot. should go without saying this should not be something that happens in the life of a public servant, of a public health official. but here we are. 1.2 million americans have died from covid. dr. fauci's book explains the government's response, the challenge of dealing with a literally novel corona virus, something new, learning as we go. he also tells the story of trying to build a government response with a president who literally did not understand what was going on and some very fundamental ways. who told him, told dr. fauci, for example, that he didn't understand why he would get a flu shot if he did not have the flu. as if he did not understand the difference between a treatment and a vaccine. a president who asked why the
flu vaccine couldn't just be used to prevent covid, as if he didn't understand that diseases and viruses are different from one another. a president who believed a fox news host, laura ingraham, when she told him there was a secret miracle cure for covid. a president who didn't understand how clinical studies disproving that had any more validity than what had been heard on the grapevine from someone he saw on the fox news who had no subject matter expertise. and it got worse from there. this is also from dr. fauci's book. on april 22nd, i attended a task force meeting where ewoo were briefed by william m. brian secretary for science and technology at the department of homeland security. he explained two studies who showed how sunlight and humidity could kill the virus, and disinfectants could be used to clean nonporous surfaces. the following day, he briefed the president in the oval office on these studies, without
deborah birx or me being present. he then joined the president on the podium in the briefing room. the result was the infamous press conference where donald trump appeared to endorse using bleach as a way to disinfect the lungs from covid. the president told the white house press corps, quote, then i see the disinfectant where it knocks it out in a minute, 1 minute, and is there a way we can do something like that by injection inside or almost a cleaning? because you see, it gets in the lungs and it does a tremendous number on the lungs so it would be interesting to check that. dr. fauci says i was not at that day's press briefing but as i watched it on tv, i thought, oh, my god. poor deb, meaning deborah birx, being on stage with the president during that musing. she must have been horrified and it would have been difficult for her to contradict the commander in chief. she looked as if she wanted to be any place other in the world but there.
sitting in front of the television, i knew we were going to have people who heard that from the president and would then go ahead and try it. my phone immediately exploded with texts and calls asking me to comment. i instantly realized that i and other scientists had to counter this message to keep americans from ingesting bleach, which could literally kill them. dr. anthony fauci is in the bull's eye of the trump movement to this day. as they seek to return to power. he's in the bull's eye of the trump movement even after leaving the government, and it is not because of covid, and it is not because of the controversial and difficult decisions of this most recent epidemic threat that he helped the country face down. he has faced down plenty of those in his 54 years at nih. what he's facing now is a political movement that cannot abide public health expertise at all, because it cannot abide expertise at all. because that competes with the
truths that are spouted from the head of the leader. it is a movement that cannot abide authority and expertise from anyone other than their leader. and they answer any such competition for him with menace. and it's not romantic, and it may be revolutionary, but there's nothing sexy or dramatic or lovely about it. it is boring, it is violent, and it's about using force. and it's a war against the u.s. system of government. dr. anthony fauci is an accomplished and brave public servant. he should not have to be as brave as he is. but he is. and he joins us live here next. c kidney disease you can reduce the risk of kidney failure with farxiga. because there are places you'd like to be. farxiga can cause serious side effects,
including ketoacidosis that may be fatal, dehydration, urinary tract, or genital yeast infections, and low blood sugar. a rare, life-threatening bacterial infection in the skin of the perineum could occur. stop taking farxiga and call your doctor right away if you have symptoms of this infection, an allergic reaction, or ketoacidosis. ♪ far-xi-ga ♪ the cockroach. resilient creatures. true miracles of evolution. where there is one, others aren't far behind. always scavenging for food, the cockroach... well that's horrifying. ortho home defense max indoor insect barrier. one application kills and prevents bugs for 365 days. not in my house you don't. nature is wild. your home doesn't have to be. when i was diagnosed with h-i-v, i didn't know who i would be. but here i am... being me. keep being you... and ask your healthcare provider about the number one prescribed h-i-v treatment, biktarvy.
biktarvy is a complete, one-pill, once-a-day treatment used for h-i-v in many people whether you're 18 or 80. with one small pill, biktarvy fights h-i-v to help you get to undetectable—and stay there whether you're just starting or replacing your current treatment. research shows that taking h-i-v treatment as prescribed and getting to and staying undetectable prevents transmitting h-i-v through sex. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects include a buildup of lactic acid and liver problems. do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your healthcare provider. common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache. no matter where life takes you, biktarvy can go with you. talk to your healthcare provider today.

joining us now for the interview is dr. anthony fauci.
he was director of the national institute of allergy and infectious disease for 54 years. he has a new book out entitled on call, a doctor's journey in public service. he joins us now for his first live interview ahead of the book's publication tomorrow. >> thank you for having me. >> i feel like i have been counting on you a lot of my life to explain things and i feel like one of the things i'm counting on you for now is bearing a lot of slings and arrows that you don't deserve. and so i wanted to give you a chance, i set up this interview with some strong words about the way that you have been targeted. i wanted to give you a chance to brush me back if you think that was inappropriate or any of that was wrong. >> no, i think you're right. that's the thing that i experienced most recently at the congressional hearing, where the purpose of the hearing was to -- the stated purpose of the hearing was to figure out how we can do better, learn by our
mistakes, and be better prepared for the inevitability of the next pandemic. and it was complete vitriol. i mean, there was nothing that even resembled that. and to me, that's the thing that scares me, because i think when you go down that road, i personally think, and i say it in the book, that i think that will undermine our social order and undermine the fabric of our democracy. even though it's in a health issue with me, it's in other issues for other people. so that worries me more than the attacks on me. i have to say that quite honestly that my family and i, we worry more about what's going to happen to the country than the threat on me. >> in terms of the kinds of criticism you're getting, and i know over your long career, you have had a lot of criticism from a lot of people. full disclosure, i was a member of act up, a member of an aids activist movement that gave you
a really hard time in the height of the aids epidemic. you talk about being stung by the vitriol and the tone of some of the -- and the tactics of some of the ways we criticized you. but also recognizing when that criticism was substantively warranted and when it should change your course. i thought that was sort of model of humility. itself was a model of how to be a responsible public serviceant. i wonder if you have reflected on the difference between that kind of vitriolic aggressive criticism and what you have experienced in the covid era? >> it's an enormous difference. i mean, you couldn't imagine anything more different because back in the mid to late '80s, what the mostly gay activists, young gay men were doing, is that they were trying to get our attention that they needed to be part of the process of discussing the rigidity of the clinical trial, the inclusion and exclusion criteria, the
extraordinary amount of time understandably that the fda took to approve a drug without any basis at all for getting drugs to people who needed a compassionate use for it. they wanted us to say sit down with us and we'll tell you how we can make this work. the scientific community, myself included at the time, and the regulatory community, they said something which was understandable but completely unacceptable in retrospect, like we know better what's for you than you know for you. so when they heard that, that's when they started to being very iconoclastic, theatrical and disruptive. the scientific community pulled back from that even more, probably one of the best things i have ever done in my career was i just started listening. i took away the theatrics, the iconoclastic behavior and listened to what they were saying. what they were saying was making absolutely perfect sense. so i kind of describe it now to
people, i use the john lewis, when he said that's trouble, but it's good trouble. they were making good trouble for me. and when i started listening to them, we were on the same track. fast forward 40 years, and you have a situation where it's pure ad hominem. it's not let's talk about something, how we can make the world a better place or make the country -- it's nothing at all, just tearing people down. so when peopleshowa sign of an anti-fauci in 1984, '85, and an anti-fauci in 2022, it's like marbles and watermelons difference. it's veryerse very different. >> in once case they're asking you to do something different in the government response to hiv and aids. in the other one, they want to kill you or lock you up or punish you and put your -- as steve bannon said, put your head on a pike. in the fragmented information environment that we're in now, and this is one of the things you land on at the end of the
book, this worry it's not like misinformation and disinformation are new, but in the media environment we're in now, it can be so fast and it can so swamp factually grounded information, i want to give you an opportunity right now to respond in the cogent way that i know you can, to the claims that have been made against you by the trump movement and by the kinds of members of congress who are shouting at you the other day in that hearing. they have accused you of creating the covid vaccine. they have accused you of covering up the real story that the virus was essentially deliberately or at least accidentally created. could you respond to those claims? >> they're preposterous because we don't know what the origin of this virus is. either somehow came out of a lab where chinese scientists went into the environment and got infected and played with it and came out, or it was a natural
spillover from an animal to a human in the wuhan market. i keep a completely open mind. the viral augical experts favor a natural occurrence. since it isn't definitive, i keep an open mind. what they say that is incorrect is the nih funted a grant in china, an indirect grant from a firm in new york that did a subaward to do some surveillance studies on what is out there, which is a perfectly appropriate thing to do, in fact, i would probably be held as being incompetent if i didn't, if we didn't do that, as it turns out, the viruses that were being studied under the nih grant are
evolutionarily so distant from sars-cov-2 that there's no chance in the world somebody could turn it into sars-cov-2. so this attack is preposterous and anybody who knows anything about virology will say it's so distant that the precursor virus could not possibly turn in even if you tried. >> you mean looking at it moleculare, this virus understudy, with in terms of nih having any involvement, is so dissimilar to the virus that caused the pandemic that there's no chance. >> even if you tried. even if you tried to do it. but that still doesn't rule out the possibility that somewhere in china, out of a lab came the virus. that's why i always say over and over again, even though the evidence strongly weighs towards it being a natural occurrence, i keep an open mind that we still
don't know what the origin is. >> i have so much more to ask you. can you stay? >> i will. >> we'll be right back. [♪♪] there's a way to cut your dishwashing time by 50%. try dawn powerwash dish spray. it removes 99% of grease and grime in half the time. it cleans so well, you can replace multiple cleaning products. >> university of maryland try dawn powerwash. global campus is a school for real life, one that values the successes you've already achieved. earn up to 90 undergraduate credits for relevant experience and get the support you need from your first day to graduation day and beyond. what will your next success be?
♪♪ ♪♪ citi's industry leading global payments solutions help their clients move money around the world seamlessly in over 180 countries... and help a partner like the world food programme as they provide more than food to people in need. together, citi and the world food programme empower families across the globe. ♪♪ try killing bugs the worry-free way. not the other way. zevo traps use light to attract and trap flying insects with no odor and no mess. they work continuously, so you don't have to. zevo. people-friendly. bug-deadly.
dangerous ladders. gutter muck. yuck. no wonder you hate cleaning your gutters. good thing there's leaffilter. our patented filter technology keeps leaves and debris out of your gutters forever. guaranteed. call 833- leaffilter to get started. and get the permanent gutter solution that ends clogs for good. they took the time to answer all of our questions. they really put us at ease. end clogged gutters for good. call 833.leaf.filter, or visit leaffilter.com today.

we're back with dr. anthony fauci whose book comes out tomorrow. this is an instant that happened three days before the 2020 presidential election. dr. fauci says, quote, by this time, the virus had infected more than 9 million americans and killed 230,000.
new daily cases were hitting record highs. but out on the campaign trail, donald trump insisted, quote, we're turning the corner. we're turning the corner. we're rounding the curve. we will vanquish the virus. the president said to me during the phone call that day, quote, everybody wants me to fire you, but i'm not going to fire you. you have too illustrious a career, but you have to be positive. the country cannot stay locked down. you have got to give them hope. quote, i like you, but so many people, not only in the white house, but throughout the country, hate you because of what you are doing. then the president continues, quote, i'm going to win this f'ing election by a landslide, just wait and see. i always did things my way, and i always win no matter what all these other f'ing people think. and that fer biden, he's so f'ing stupid, i'm going to kick his f'ing in this election. dr. fauci, getting that call a few days before the election where he did not win, i know
that by this point you had quite a lot of interaction with president trump but it does seem like that interaction unnerved you a little bit. >> you know, it did. it almost is as if he was talking past me, like he was just emoting. it wasn't like he was -- plus, it was a little incongruous because he ended it by saying take care, see you soon, something like that. i wasn't quite sure. it was unnerving. even though you're convinced you're doing the right thing, which i had been, you know, trying to say all along, just level with the american public. you'll wind up being better off to do that. it is not a pleasant thing to have the president of the united states when you have such a great deal of respect for the presidency of the united states, for the president to get on the phone and scream at you the way he did. so that was very tough. >> you describe something that i had understood sort of in a way,
but i never understood it as a pattern before, which was his continued references to the flu. it did seem the way that you described it that president trump didn't understand some of the basics about the flu and that it's a different virus than covid. he said to you that he didn't see why he would have to get a flu shot if he didn't have the flu. he didn't understand it was preventative and not treatment. >> that's true. >> he also said at nih, why can't we just use the flu vaccine to prevent covid. do you think he doesn't know what the vaccine is? >> the thing that i think underlies this is he wanted so much to be like the flu, because historically, the flu peaks and it goes away in march, april it's gone, then you can go on with the election cycle. >> it has a season. >> but it wasn't doing that. it wasn't going away. so he kept on saying it's going to disappear like magic.
that's when i had to start saying no, i'm sorry, but that's not going to happen. i had to do that publicly. when that didn't work, he started invoking magical cures like hydroxychloroquine, and when it became clear that wasn't working, he brought in scott atlas who told him everything he wanted to hear. it was just wanted so much for to go away. and figuring out if it wasn't going to go away naturally, i'm going to act like it's going to go away. that was the problem. >> was it dangerous for him to promote hydroxychloroquine and those other supposed cures? >> yeah, i mean, obviously it is. i don't want to get into how many numbers of people would have made a difference, but clearly, he missed an opportunity, because there were people out there who knew nothing about this, who were saying hydroxychloroquine works and we know that not only does it not, but it actually hurts people. he could have used the bully pulpit of the presidency to say, hey, listen to the scientists.
but he didn't do that. >> in terms of the vaccine development that did happen in this country that you described as being almost miraculous in terms of the pace, going from in 11 months from the identification of the pathogen to a safe and effective and deployable virus. that's something the united states of america contributed to the world's response and has a lot to be proud of and you have a lot to be proud of. i don't know if it's okay for me to ask you this, but if there had been a problem in developing a vaccine for covid, if we hadn't been able to do that, do you have in mind a number about how many people would have died? >> i think globally it would be many more millions. in the united states, it could probably be another million. because it was very, very clear when you looked at the curves of hospitalizations and deaths and people who were vaccinated versus people who were unvaccinated, the unvaccinated people, the death and hospitalization went this way,
and vaccinated, it was low like this. so the difference, the multi-full difference in hospitalizations and death, if we did not -- if we had a vaccine in the usual time that it takes to get vooens, this would have been a more unimaginable devastation. it's already unimaginable. >> 1.2 million is already -- >> already just horrible. it would have been much worse. >> i have one other matter that i want to ask you about. i know i'm not supposed to keep you, but i'm going to. >> please do. >> we'll be right back after this. e right back after this
at bombas, we're obsessed with socks. tees. and underwear. because your basic things should be your best things. one purchased equals one donated. visit bombas.com and get 20% off your first order.
(smelling) ew. gotta get rid of this. ♪tell me why♪ because it stinks. ♪have you tried downy rinse and refresh♪ it helps remove odors 3x better than detergent alone.
it worked guys! ♪yeahhhh♪ downy rinse and refresh. clogged gutters can cause big problems fast. until now. call 833-leaffilter today for your free gutter inspection. i've had terrible flooding problems on my porch. now i understand why.
right now leaffilter is offering a free inspection, on your schedule. leaffilter is a permanent gutter solution, so you never have to worry about costly damage from clogged gutters again. call us today and schedule your free inspection. to schedule your free inspection, calwith the price of justy about everything inflating these days, you may wonder why mint is deflating the price of mint unlimited from $30 a month to just $15 a month. well, it's easy. we know a great price on a great product is better than one of those things. right? does big wireless really believe that these things actually work? ( ♪♪ ) ( ♪♪ ) this one will never see the light of day. all right.
we're back now again with dr. anthony fauci. his new memoir comes out tomorrow. it's called on call, doctor's journey in public service. it's a good history of someone who has been there for all of it, seven presidents. dr. fauci, when i was in the aids movement, one of the things that really affected my life was the people who were hiv positive became hiv denialists, and they decided if they were sick, it was the anti-hiv drugs that were the things that were making them sick and they should instead take a natural course, and i lost a lot of -- i had friends die because of that. and it was -- i never knew what to do about it. now i feel like we have a national sickness that sort of feels like it has echoes of that
on covid. do you see parallels there? >> absolutely. the aids denialists had people in the united states die because of that, but in south africa, the president of south africa used the aids denialests as an excuse nas to have drugs for the people in south africa and was estimated over 300,000 south africans died because they were withheld drugs because of aids denialism. i think if you fast forward now about denying the science of a vaccine and denying that vaccines are safe and effective when you have billions of people who have been vaccinated and the data showing the life-saving elements of the vaccine, that is tantamount to denialism, and when people don't get vaccinated, because of whatever idealogical reason they have for not getting vaccinated, those are lives lost that are avoidable deaths.
and there's been some modeling studies toshowthat there have been a substantial number of people that would have been alive had they gotten vaccinated that didn't get vaccinated merely because idealogically they didn't believe you should get vaccinated, they believe people who said vaccines don't work and are dangerous. many of these people are dead now. that's really unfortunate, no matter what they political slant is, that pains me to having see people die because of a decision based on a political reason. >> dr. fauci, with your work, even on aids alone, your work is a -- has been attributed for saving 25 million lives, and that's where you start counting before you get to covid and everything else. thank you for your service. >> thank you so much. thank you for having me. >> dr. anthony fauci, former director of the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases. his book comes out tomorrow. we'll be right back.
type 2 diabetes? discover the ozempic® tri-zone. ♪ ♪ i got the power of 3. i lowered my a1c, cv risk, and lost some weight. in studies, the majority of people reached an a1c under 7 and maintained it. i'm under 7. ozempic® lowers the risk of major cardiovascular events such as stroke, heart attack, or death in adults also with known heart disease. i'm lowering my risk. adults lost up to 14 pounds. i lost some weight. ozempic® isn't for people with type 1 diabetes. don't share needles or pens, or reuse needles. don't take ozempic® if you or your family ever had
medullary thyroid cancer, or have multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 2, or if allergic to it. stop ozempic® and get medical help right away if you get a lump or swelling in your neck, severe stomach pain, or an allergic reaction. serious side effects may include pancreatitis. gallbladder problems may occur. tell your provider about vision problems or changes. taking ozempic® with a sulfonylurea or insulin may increase low blood sugar risk. side effects like nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea may lead to dehydration, which may worsen kidney problems. living with type 2 diabetes? ask about the power of 3 with ozempic®.
one last thing before we go tonight. >> this starts with a really cheery little episode, i guess and a really cheery little thumbnail