ed this message because this is who we are.   it was called love", love". it was a game that you played on your cell phone.
now, i will tell you, the premise was a little bit dark, but straightforward. you see, there's like a grumpy looking person in the foreground on the left, and a happy couple on the right. so, the grumpy person in the foreground is supposed to be you in this game. and your goal as a grumpy little troll is that you are supposed to break up the happy looking couple behind you. now, you play against your opponent, and over the course of seven rounds, you basically have to choose between two scenarios, that might cause a rift between this otherwise happy couple. and at the end of the game, the player that causes the most heartbreak is declared to be the winner. now, this game does not exist, but these screenshots from it are real. congratulations, you just plunged to the next rank, you awful person! it was a little twisted and it was very, very irreverent.
but it was also kind of addictive. and the creator of that game said the app was profitable pretty much right from the start. she actually compared it to the mother of all video games. she compared it to pong. she said, quote, i will tell you, it's as simple as pong. this is the dating equivalent, it's not complicated, it's simple. but it's fun. now, love", despite its profitability, it was more of, like, a side hustle for the scrappy early video game developer who created it. she did that video game thing. she did some other stuff. her full-time gig was as a writer, journalist. in the late 1970s at the age of 36, that woman who developed that game, her name was elizabeth. she submitted a story to the men's magazine, esquire, and she says the fact that it even got published was a fluke.
and editor grabbed it out of the slush pile by chance and bought, it decided to run it. and that first article in esquire open the door for other writing gigs for her, more articles for esquire, but also big powerhouse publications in the golden age of big men's magazines and big mass market magazines like rolling stone and new york magazine, and even glamour, the atlantic, and vanity fair. she was getting published in all of those places. and she carved out a niche for herself, writing these often truly hilarious, i think more or less eccentric, gonzo stories, where she would embed herself with famous or interesting people, and with them, do infamous or interesting things. and then, she would write about her experiences. and these stories ended up being as much about her subject as they were about herself. that was a kind of gonzo style.
for example, you know who fran lebowitz is. she interviewed the infamous curmudgeon, fran lebowitz, and fran lebowitz notoriously hates to leave her apartment, let alone leave new york city. but this author took fran lebowitz camping of all things, like the one thing that fran lebowitz constitutionally could never do, she took her camping. and then, she wrote hysterical piece about the whole thing for the cover of outside magazine. quote, nothing much doing after we get the tent up, so we are sitting around and fran is looking at the pint choice across the middle. i say, how nice it is to sit around and do nothing. fran says you can do nothing in new york too. only there, you get to do it on a sofa. you get the gist. she also followed a pack of basketball groupies around. that was a truly scandalous article. she did an interview with the storied anchorman dan rather that was unlike any other interview with dan rather.
it starts, would you consider cosmetic surgery? no, says rather. what if somebody says, well, really, dan, you have bags down here. it happens, says rather, grinning. what is your age? rather says, i'm 113 years old. he grins all the way down to his clavicles. she also did a profile of the musician lyle lovett. that is still to this day, i think, the definitive profile of lyle lovett. now, it was sort of unheard of for women to write for not just big mass market magazines, all the brassy men's magazines too, but our magazine writer, elizabeth, she did it perfectly. she was the first woman ever to be named a contributing editor at playboy. and the new york times wrote about that this weekend, they wrote about that time when
people do we need to read playboy for the articles. it was a woman's magazine, though, that really catapulted her career. in 1993, she got a call from elle magazine, the world largest fashion magazine. the editor in chief had been reading her work. she wanted her to write a regular advice column for elle, and so she did. she did it under her now famous name because elizabeth use just her first initial with her name. in print, she was always e. jean carroll. her new advice column in elle was called ask e. jean. and it ran for more than a quarter of a century. it's one of the longest running advice columns in the history of american publishing. that column was so popular, it gave way to a daily televisionshowby the same name which aired on the predecessor to this very tv network. she was asked to appear as a contributor to the big mega talk shows, like that todayshow, and good morning america, and oprah.
at one point, she was even hired as a writer for snl, saturday night live, that pit stop at snl earned her an emmy nomination. that cell phone game that i mentioned at the top, the break up cell phone game, it wasn't her only business venture outside journalism. in the early 2000s, she started a successful matchmaking service. she also started a dating website. the latter was sold for six figures. she's also written five books over the course of her career. it's a body of work that spans decades. she has had that kind of career in publishing that a lot of young woman in journalism dream of having, prolifically published with an absolutely singular instantly identifiable writing style. practically, universally beloved by her peers and the business. here's a brief sampling of how she has been described by fellow journalists and editors. she has been described as, quote, quirky, cheeky, daring,
gutsy, funny, trail blazer. people have called her that female hunter s. thompson. despite that illustrious, lengthy, enviable, multifaceted, creative, deeply impressive career, these days, e. jean carroll's almost universally remembered for one of the last things, her most recent book, in which e. jean carroll first accused former president donald trump of raping her in a department store dressing room in new york city in 1996. after she made that accusation in that book, published in 2019, while donald trump was still president, he said she was lying about it. he said he had never met her, let alone assaulted her. and so, she sued him. the sitting president. and it took a while, but in the end, it has now resulted in a jury ordering donald trump to pay e. jean carroll more than
$83. 3 million for defaming her with false claims after a jury determined that he was indeed liable for having sexually assaulted her that day in 1996. and of course, what this was, it was a civil case, right? this was a lawsuit brought by one person, by this one extraordinary, interesting, totally unique person, brought by her against another private person. it's not a criminal case. nobody is going to jail. nobody is being criminally charged here. this is just what about the defendant owes the plaintiff, what he should be forced to pay to her to compensate her, to compensate her and to punish him for what he did. it is a civil case between two very identifiable, very unique individual. and as such, there are two ways this has resonated so much with all of us. there's two reasons why we care so much about what she has just been able to do.
the first reason, the first reason it resonates, the first reason we care, honestly, it's because of us as a country, and who we are, and the way he, as a political figure, is trying to change us as a country. >> you are promising america tonight that you would never abuse power as retribution against anybody. >> except for day one -- except for day one. >> meaning -- >> i said i want to be a dictator for one day. >> i only want to be a dictator for one day. >> would you rather have 40 years of donald trump as a dictator, or four years of joe biden as a president? >> trump. >> as a dictator? >> maybe. >> sometimes, in life, we all need a good paddling from the principle, to set our life on the right track. and this country does need a little bit of that. we need a little paddling. >> a strongman running the
country -- >> would you rather have four years of trump as a dictator, or four years of biden as president? >> donald trump all the way. >> even as a dictator? >> yes, yes. >> trump as a dictator. >> trump as a dictator. >> i'm going with a trump for sure. >> i'd rather have trump as a dictator. >> the other day trump said on his first day, it's going to be a dictator for a day. >> i like that. >> would you rather have donald trump as a dictator for four years or we elect biden for four years? >> i would rather have donald trump, i like to see the repeal of that roosevelt law so that he could be a president for a lot more than four years. but we, this country, needs a dictator. i hate to say that but it's the truth. >> this is part of why we care, right? because putting him in court tests this whole idea. what is appealing about a dictator? a dictatorship, what's appealing about a strongman leader replacing democracy, having somebody who stays in power indefinitely and has
unchecked total authority to do whatever he wants? what is appealing about that? not just why would you offer to be that, you can see the appeal to a person who wants to be that kind of person. but why would you want that in your country? the most appealing thing about a strongman leader, right? is that he'd be able to get stuff done. he would be unconstrained, couldn't be stopped, you know. i alone can fix it. through enforcing, you know, loyalty to him, or death, by locking up his enemies, by breaking all the rules, government, congress. the courts, yeah, right. that's what he's promising. that's the appeal. and so, what this writer, this journalist, in this extraordinary unique woman did was give us pretty much the first test of that prospect that has come all the way to fruition. this is running to the end now. this is the test. is he that strong demand that
he claims to be? and that his followers believe him to be and that they so want instead of this messy democracy, or sometimes other people get their way. is he that? or is he a citizen, an american who live in a democracy, which has courts, and laws? i mean, to be clear, the only reason to bring criminal charges against a person is because they have committed a crime. the only reason to bring a civil case against someone is if they have done something legally actionable for which they should pay. but one should believe a person has done those things once they are in court. you are a testing not only the allegations in that particular case, you are at testing the system. you are protesting whether the law that applies to everyone else can be brought to bear even on that guy who says he is absolutely immune. you bring him to court and that is the test of us as a country. and that is why the court system looms so large in this era, right?
that's why we've all become armchair lawyers in the last eight years. that's why these former prosecutors and exploiting gaiters have jobs on tv now explaining stuff, right? that's why judges and the court system are so important and central in the age of trump and his takeover of the republican party and his promises strongman style dictatorship. a would-be strongman says he is immune from the legal system. he's unconstrained by any institution, and by anything in our government. e. jean carroll is the one who called that question. e. jean carroll civil case says, i'm not a strongman. and neither are you. none of us are. no one can be in america because this is a democracy, and law, and in a case like this, the law protects me even from you. and so, i will call the question. i will call on the law, the court system, toshowthat, to
prove that the strongman model does not work here, however much people might want it. this is not europe between the wars. this is america. and that's the second reason that we care, right? that's the second reason this case, this huge $83. 3 million judgment resonates so much with us, because she did this in a civil case, human to human, eyeball to eyeball, she did this in her own name and in her own personal defense. she called upon the law to protect her, a a person who was willing to put her name to the allegations, and toshowup to court and say it. so much of that calculus in our country right now, so much of the calculus frenzy in the world right now, so much of the calculus about how to contend with trump's, how mad is he gonna be? how crazy will his supporters go? historian tim snyder seminal book, on tyranny, this
anticipation of the backlash, this worry about how upset trump and his supporters might get, this is a phenomenon that snyder describes as obeying in advance, as in do not obey in advance. do not give the tyrant, or the would-be tyrant, what they want because you fear what they might do otherwise. put more bluntly, the message is, to snyder's light, the lesson from the 20th century is, stand up, say no, have guts. the the one. how many of us would have the guts of e. jean carroll at age 80 to do what she did, to call his question, to test it, to make us decide it as a country, to render this would be strongman just a man? joining us now is e. jean carroll, who successfully sued donald trump for defamation. she's flank tonight by her lawyers and the case, robbie kaplan, who you see on the
left, and shawn crowley who you see on the right. thank you all so much for being here. it's such a pleasure to see the three of you here, and to have you here. i'm really grateful you made the time. >> pleasure. >> jean, let me just ask you, you guys have lived this case in one way or another since 2019, since trump was still in the white house. and you published your book. how different is it now to be part of this case, now that you are out in the other side, you have won this massive $83. 3 million judgment. does it feel different to you now than it did when you are in the middle of it? >>rachel, thank you for that incredible introduction. the three of us were shaking with laughter and tears in our eyes, laughing, crying at the same time. we have to put in a nutshell what we were fighting for. you did it. thank you so much,rachel. yes, i feel that this bodes well for the future.
i think we've planted our flag. i think we've made a statement that -- that things are gonna be different, that there is gonna be a new way of doing things in this country because of this indestructible team of lawyers,rachel. sometimes, i'm 50 years older than some of the associates on our team. i'm 40 -- and i'm 40 years older than robbie. and together, this team of brilliant young people have, as you said, when stood up to the man. who, by the way,rachel, is not even there. he is nothing. he is without -- he is like a
walrus, snorting, and like rhino flopping his -- he is not there. that was the surprising thing to me. >> well, on that point, talking about, you know, being face to face with him, being in the same physical space with him for the first time since, when you say he assaulted you in 1996. what you are describing their, in terms of him being nothing, him feeling like an animal, feeling not intimidating, was that a shock to you? your guts here, your bravery here, including the physical bravery about being around him again, it sounds like it didn't go the way you expected to in that courtroom. >>rachel, i was terrified. i was just a bag of sweating corpuscles as we were preparing for trial. and three, four days before trial, i had an actual breakdown. i lost my ability to speak. i lost my words.
i couldn't talk, and i couldn't go on. that's how frightened i was. but oddly, we went into court. robby took the lectern. i sat in the witness chair like this. and she said, miss carroll, good morning. would you please spell your name for the court. and amazingly, i looked out, and he was nothing. he was nothing! he was a phantom. there was people around him who were giving him power, but he himself was nothing. it was astonishing discovery for me. he is nothing. we don't need to be afraid of him. he can be knocked out. twice, with this woman right here -- >> rightly so. well, by the team here, i mean, let me just, actually, miss
kaplan, robbie, let me put this to you. as soon as the verdict happened, robbie, you said there is a way to stand up to someone like donald trump. and it felt like you are not necessarily advising your fellow lawyers or potential defendant. you are kind of advising the country. did you mean in that as advice -- do you mean that as advice for, you know, republicans who don't want to go along with him but to have been so far every to say no or stand up to him? >> i think in the moment,rachel, i meant it in the context of the court system and litigation. but in my guts, in my heart, i meant what you said, how you just described it, or how e. jean just described it. it is time, and we have proved in this case, it is time to stand up to the world's -- the u.s.'s current biggest bully. and the way to do that is by using the facts, and the law, and our legal system to say that we're not afraid. and we saw a jury of nine new
yorkers stand up as much as we did and say, not only did you do this, but you need to pay her $83. 3 million. >> miss shawn, an opening and closing the trial, you ask jurors to consider awarding punitive damages. how much it would cost to make trump stop lying about miss carroll? how high the number would have to be in order to deter him from continuing to do what he's been doing to e. jean? do you think the award in this case is sufficient to make him stop? >> it's really hard to say with someone like that. so far, it has been, which i think is pretty remarkable, given who he is, and what he's done to e. jean, pretty much relentlessly over the last four years. you know, i do have to say that i think that he himself during the trial helped us make that argument by, you know, leaving quote each day and posting on truth social and giving press
conferences, where he continued to defame her, after literally sitting in court on trial for defaming her. and then, just his behavior in the courtroom, like, he just refused to follow the rules, shaking his head, he was shouting. he walked out during robbie's closing argument, which was something i've never seen before in a court of law. and so, you know, i think that it helps the jury to not just have to believe what we were telling them, but get to actually see it with their own eyes, the way that this guy just believes that he is not bound by any rules or laws. >> and it kind of tells you, if you think about who he really is, after all, our thesis in this trial was, one, that he is a bully, and two, that he is incapable of following the rules. and then, during the trial, he acted like a bully, and he was incapable of following the rules. you almost don't need to say anything. we just watched it. >> e. jean, robbie, and shawn, if you don't mind stay with us
for one more block. e. jean, i know that you've been thinking heart about what you're going to do with all of trump's money. i would like to talk to you about that. i'd like to talk to you about some of that developments that have happened, potentially related to this case, since that verdict on friday. stick with us. >> great, absolutely.   all right, we'll be right back with a woman of the hour and the lawyers who won her case against donald trump. stay with us.
most comde effec were nausea, indigestion, and stomach pain. ask about nurtec odt. i love your dress. oh thanks! i splurged a little because liberty mutual customized my car insurance and i saved hundreds. that's great. i know, right? i've been telling everyone. baby: liberty. did you hear that?
ty just said her first word. can you say “mama”? baby: liberty. can you say “auntie”? baby: liberty. how many people did you tell? only pay for what you need. jingle: ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ baby: ♪ liberty. ♪ this new charmin ultra soft smooth tear is soooo soft and soo smooth. new charmin ultra soft smooth tear has wavy perforations that tear so much better for a smooth more enjoyable go.
charmin, enjoy the go. here's why you should switch fo to duckduckgo on all your devie duckduckgo comes with a built-n engine like google, but it's pi and doesn't spy on your searchs and duckduckgo lets you browse like chrome, but it blocks cooi and creepy ads that follow youa from google and other companie. and there's no catch. it's fre. we make money from ads, but they don't follow you aroud join the millions of people taking back their privacy by downloading duckduckgo on all your devices today.
alina, do you regret it?
>> no, no. i'm glad you asked me that question. no, i'm not having any second thoughts about representing president trump. it's the proudest thing i could ever do. >> yeah, but how did it go? [laughter] that was former president trump's lawyer alina habba on friday, just after the jury ordered her client to pay $83. 3 million to e. jean carroll. we are back now with miss carroll, who did successfully sue donald trump for defamation twice. she's here along with her attorneys, robbie kaplan, and shawn crowley, thank you all for sticking with me. let me actually just stick i -- wasn't gonna ask this. and it may be rude. so you don't have to answer if you don't want. i would put it this either to make crowley or miss kaplan if either of you want to answer it. you are both very experienced trial attorneys. you've been against some of the best and brightest opposing counsel in all sorts of different trials. how is president trump's lawyer ring? is he well represented in court? >> i'm gonna let crowley answer that. but i will say that what you heard just now in that tape of alina habba leaving the court
and yelling at the reporters, that's what we heard every single day, multiple times during this trial, but yelling at the judge. and it was unbelievably nerve- racking each time it happened, and it happens multiple times every day. >> yeah, thanks for handing that one over to me. [laughter] i think that she had a hard job, and you could definitely see a difference between her sort of style, when he was in the courtroom, and when he was not there. she was much more disciplined and frankly acted more like a lawyer when he wasn't there. when he was, i mean, you could hear him telling her went to object, and loudly being frustrated with her. and i think she felt like she had to say things to the judge and to us and sort of put on a performance, like we just saw in front of that tv cameras.
>> e. jean, in terms of what you've just been through, i need, to hear a lawyer's experiences, robbie kaplan, it was nerve-racking to be in this courtroom sometimes. i have to ask you, you know, president trump has kept your name out of his mouth since being told he has to pay $83. 3 million to you for what he's done in the past. but over the weekend, he did start posting links online, two articles that attacked you and denied your claims. again, he seems to be pushing it already in terms of whether or not he's going to go back to calling you a liar, and denying that he did what he did. if it came to it, if your lawyers told you that there was another case, and that you should go back, and get more money out of him, sue him again. would you do it? >> absolutely, absolutely! >> it wasn't too much wear and tear on you. i mean, the gut factor here is
real, in terms of how much you put yourself out there -- a lot of people who would not put themselves through what you've gone through. >>rachel, many people, as you know, have been through much worse than i went through in that trial. people suffered more difficult things than i've ever been through in my life. and i am more than willing to do it again because we achieved so much in a seven-day trial. we did what people thought was impossible. we beat donald trump. >> let me ask you about a way that you have talked about this, e. jean. you have talked about the fact that this was not just you being, you know, passively victimized, but you fought, that it was a fight, and that the term that you use. and everybody gets to choose their own terms to describe
something like this happening to them. but you chose that, and it seems like it's important to your sense of self, and to your own sense of agency, and knowing who you are, and making decisions about what to do next. what you just did 25 years after the assault, it was a different kind of fight, going at him at the height of his power and the height of his celebrity. i wonder if you can just talk about that self conception, why it's important to you to know for yourself that you fought, but also so that the world knows that you both did fight and that you will fight? >> well, we're fighting not really,rachel, for me. it's now about fighting for all women. we are also fighting, and we salute the women and men who've been assaulted, and who did not survive. we are doing this for women around the country, whoa had been knocked down repeatedly. and so, it's really not about
me anymore. we have moved beyond. and as you say, the fight now is really to take back our future. this is a man who stacked the supreme court, took away women's rights over their own bodies. we would like to be a part of turning our eyes to the future and taking back our rights. >> you've talked about using some of trump's money that you are about to get, to help shore up women's rights. do you know what that might be, what that might look like? >> yes,rachel! yes! >> tell me. >> i had such great ideas for all the things i'm gonna do with this money. first thing,rachel, you and i will go shopping, get completely new wardrobes, new shoes, a motorcycle for crowley, and you fishing boat for kaplan. it's yours,rachel. penthouse in france, you want france?
you want to go fishing in france? all right. >> that's a joke. [laughter] >> although, if me fishing in france could do something for women's rights, i would take it in. i would take one for the team. [laughter] as if you need persuasion in that regard. let me finish with a final question, and again, this is both for you shawn, and for you robbie, you guys can divide up responsibility here. there are multiple case here involving trump that are coming up. obviously, most eyes are on the federal january 6th case, having been up against trump in the courtroom, i'm wondering if you to have any advice in terms of what it's like to go up against him and his legal team, in terms of the way he approaches his defense? it's part of a. and i also want to know if this big, whatever, what everybody is expecting to
be a very large judgment against him and his company, change anything about the way that you approached the ask to the jury, the way that you presented evidence, the way that you are planning on making sure this money is in fact extracted from trump's wallet. how much do all of these different cases interact with each other, if at all, and can various lawyers involved in these various cases learn from each other's experiences? >> so, the short answer to that cases interacting with each other, absolutely all the time. to give you just one good example, in our case, we played at the end of our case not only the deposition that i took of donald trump in this case, but we played the deposition of the new york attorney general and their case because and that deposition, trump is bragging about how his brand alone was worth more than $10 million. he has $400 million cash on hand. and the reason that was so relevant, assessing how much money to award punitive damages, the jury is not only allowed to, but supposed to think of the wealth of the defendant. so, when we said, when shawn
said, give him enough, give him a enough, to e. jean, to make him stop. they had to think what enough would be for donald trump. so, that cases, they mix in predictable and unpredictable ways, kind of talking to each other all the time. >> on the first question, you know, i think that one thing that i wasn't maybe prepared for coming into this trial is that when donald trump is stripped of, you know, all of the press, and not at a rally, and there is no tv cameras, and he sort of has a small group of supporters around him, he's not that scary. and he also can be controlled. you know, i mean, his antics in the courtroom, we've talked about them. but at the end of the day, he did kind of follow the rules. robbie cross-examined him. he was in the witness chair. you only got to answer three questions, i think. and he pretty much stayed within the bounce.
i think when you have a strong judge, like judge kaplan, who enforces the rules of his courtroom, and you have real lawyers, you really can get him to behave, sort of. and when he is stripped of all of the rallies, and the truth social, he's just a guy. i think e. jean called him the emperor with no clothes. that's not my quote. but he definitely, he's not the guy that you see on tv. he's just a guy, sometimes acting like a petulant toddler. but just a guy. >> an american bound by the law, just as every american is bound by the law. rioter-y jean carroll, attorney robert kaplan, attorney shawn crowley, you guys have made history a couple of times now. and you also have meant a lot and continued to mean a lot in lighting the way, i think, for a lot of people in terms of moral clarity and strategic acumen. and i really, really want to
thank each of you for making the time to talk to us, and i wish you all safety and rest. thank you. >> thank you,rachel. >> thank you.   all right, we'll be right back. stay with us.


two leading candidates for senate. two very different visions for california. steve garvey, the leading republican, is too conservative for california. he voted for trump twice and supported republicans for years, including far right conservatives. adam schiff, the leading democrat, defended democracy against trump and the insurrectionists. he helped build affordable housing, lower drug costs, and bring good jobs back home.
the choice is clear. i'm adam schiff, and i approve this message. we want to bring you an update on south carolina's democratic primary nbc news protects president has one, with a resounding margin. and biden issued a statement thanking the voters of south carolina, saying in part quote, in 2020, it was the voters of south carolina who prove the punts wrong, breathe new life into our campaign, and set us on the path to win the presidency. now in 2020, the people of south carolina have spoken again, and i have no doubt that you've set us on the path to winning the presidency again. and making don't trump a loser,
again. a total of 55 delegates were upper grabs tonight, and they were all awarded proportionally based on the results to president biden. a big concern for the biden campaign going into today was whether voters were motivated to get to the polls for joe biden. here is what voters told. asked >> there is some concern about enthusiasm for democrats, coming up. and if enough democrats are excited to vote for biden. >> probably not. i mean clearly, they ran a few people here today, and that's an indication. i hope it will change between now and november. >> are you excited to vote for president biden? >> yes, i am. >> i think that patients, i've been around long enough to see that there is change with time. so, younger voters might not be so aggressive to do that, but i am patient, and i have seen what can be done. and so i am excited about the
future. >> earlier today, i spoke to michael tyler, communications director for the biden harris 2024 campaign about the presidents win. here is we had to say but how democrats are looking at turnout in the -- state. >> -- you got about 110,000 votes turnout to the -- incredibly competitive election with multiple candidates. here in south carolina tonight, you will have 100,000 people turnout for the president, because they appreciate everything that he has done over the course of his first term. and they are sudden about the future, and they are geared up and understand the sense of urgency for the general election ahead. -- you can look at our grassroots funding, and we had a grassroots funding month in january. >> all right, let's get to the big board with msnbc national political correspondent steve kornacki to break down -- what it tells a bose overall warrant
in on that front, it delivered. there was not the type of suspense as the results come out, the call was quick for the president, joe biden, winning his primary and winning it overwhelmingly here. and again the significance of south carolina here for biden. this is the first primary were the president actually had primae the president actually had his you ran to write in candidate up in new hampshire back at the end of january. he got two thirds of the vote there with people writing his name in. but this time biden's name is actually on the ballot. and you can just see here it is near unanimous. we still have some votes to come in statewide, as you can see. but we got a big chunk of the vote comes. and i think the most significant, then just besides obviously the march here. i mean look at close to 100 biden's number is. neither of his opponents at 2%. but just county to county, i could go through each of these, but there is really no variance. -- it's not like there's absolutely strong. he is basically running around
95% or above right now in every county in the state. and it one of the questions we were asked about south carolina, one of the reasons as we thought this might be an interesting test for biden. there's been indications in polling that biden might have some slack with black voters. black voters were so important in south carolina in 2022 delivering biden the victory -- -- -- it's why he wants and in the democratic process. you are certainly singing counties with large black populations here. -- and example, -- a small county overall statewide. that again williamsport county, this is the second highest concentration of black voters in the state. ? there is by 98%. we are seeing as well, go up here, -- this is where clemson university. is this actually has the lowest share of black residents in the state. this was biden's worst county,
in the 2020 primary in south carolina. just look at, results he barely held off bernie sanders. remember, he barely -- but again, even here, biden is running at 95% tonight. so overall, the story that seems to be told by the result tonight's democratic primary voters, we sought in new hampshire, we are seeing a special here in south carolina. maybe they would have reacted differently, we will never know, if there have been a bigger name who stepped forward and challenged biden. maybe they would have but. marianne williamson stepped forward, congressman dean phillips except for. and the message that democratic voters are delivering is, it's not interested, just not that interested. they are ready to go with biden as their nominee, that is the message they are delivering. are they ready to move on to the general election, where -- 96 part -- i think that message comes through loud and clear here. in terms of the overall turnout, we will see where it finally lands. it's looking a little bit like it is going to be more than one third of the total from the 2020 democratic primaries. obviously much more competitive.
and the other significant thing here is to keep in mind that someone watching this primary tonight is nikki haley. in three weeks, south carolina republican primary, so important to haley, her home state. she is relying on independents, she is relying on democrats, the rule in south carolina is that anyone can vote in either primary. but, if you vote in the democratic primary, you cannot vote in the republican primary as well. so the haley campaign probably sees every vote as of getting cast in this primary -- . -- to vote against donald trump. so that's the other significance of this result tonight, when we see with that final turn out. as with the overall headline here is, we expected biden to, win and we expected him to win extremely big. and he won, extremely big tonight in south carolina. >> all right steve kornacki, thanks for that. we are also watching other breaking news in the middle east, after the united states and -- launch a new series of strikes targeting the houthis in yemen, over the groups on going attacks to the red sea. the attacks had at least 36
targets in at least 13 locations across yemen. a senior biden official told nbc news today that the strikes in yemen, and yesterday's attacks on more than 85 targets linked to iranian-backed militias in iraq and syria, are not related. i'm a mandating, therachelmaddowshowcontinues. next a mandating, therachelmaddowshowcontinues. next
here's to getting better with age. here's to beating these two every thursday. help fuel today with boost high protein, complete nutrition you need... ...without the stuff you don't. so, here's to now. boost. looking for a bladder leak pad that keeps you dry? all of the things that you're looking for in a pad, that is always discreet. look at how it absorbs all of the liquid. and locking it right on in! you feel no wetness. - oh my gosh! - totally absorbed! i got to get some always discreet! it's easy to get lost in investment research.
introducing j.p. morgan personal advisors. hey david. connect with an advisor to create your personalized plan. let's find the right investments for your goals okay, great. j.p. morgan wealth management. it's time to feed the dogs real food, not highly processed pellets. the farmer's dog is fresh food made with whole meat and veggies. it's not dry food. it's not wet food. it's just real food. it's an idea whose time has come. hey, you should try new robitussin honey medi-soothers for long-lasting cough and sore throat relief. try new robitussin lozenges with real medicine and find your voice. you know? we really need to work on your people skills.
a mystery! jessie loves playing detective. but the real mystery was her irritated skin. so, we switched to tide pods free & gentle. it cleans better, and doesn't leave behind irritating residues. and it's gentle on her skin. tide free & gentle is epa safer choice certified. it's got to be tide. as the world keeps moving, help prevent covid-19 from breaking your momentum. you may have already been vaccinated against the flu, but don't forget this season's updated covid-19 shot too. just this month, over the course of the last three years and three different states, the
head of the republican party either quit or got fired. in light 17 days, we lost the head of the republican party in michigan, in, florida and in arizona. in michigan for weeks, they've had dueling republican party, complete with separate websites each claiming to be the real republican party. a few weeks ago you might remember michigan republicans voted to oust their party chair, while she insisted the vote wasn't authorized, and she's still was the party chair. the people who say they voted her out and picked a new leader for the michigan republican party, insisting that he is the real chairman now. now, the national republican party, the rnc has weighed in, saying they do think she was probably removed, but they don't recognize the new guy. [laughter] so, at the rnc winter meeting that start tomorrow neither of them would be recognized on the rnc website. right now, michigan's state chair is listed as a vacant because, sure, who needs a party chair in one of the top battleground states in a presidential election here?
that is michigan. in florida, that states republican chair was also ousted, no confusion about that one. he was ousted after news broke that he was being investigated for allegations of rape. police last week cleared him of the rape charges but they are now seeking video voyeurism charges for allegedly illegally video recording a sexual encounter without consent. and then came arizona, when the state republican party chairman has just resigned, following the release of a super fishy audio recording of a conversation he apparently had with failed republican arizona gubernatorial candidate kari lake. she of course insists that she won the governor's race in 2022, and she is in fact the rightful governor of arizona right now, even though you can't tell from outward appearances. she contends that the tent party chairman tried to bribe her to stay out of arizona's senate race this year. he says that he resigned because she's threatening to release more damning recordings. he didn't resign. that's how it's going.
michigan, florida, arizona, three battleground states, three republican party chairs gone in 17 days. now, though, in the not at all battleground state of oklahoma, it looks like there might be a fourth. this weekend, it looked like republican u.s. senator james lankford was getting censured by the oklahoma republican party for daring to work on border legislation, which langford has described as the most conservative potential immigration policy in 40 years. oh, how dare you work on that. the grave crime of course is that to work on it, he had to talk with democrats. oklahoma republicans felt that was unacceptable and censured him for it this weekend, except it turns out that censure may not have been an official thing. the republican party chair in oklahoma contends that the vice chair went rogue and held a center vote at a meeting that was only being held in violation of the rules. it wasn't a real meeting. so it wasn't real censure. what would republican party be without as cosmetic fracture
and that was salt and a serious question as to who's actually running the thing? behold your republican party today. >>,
the virus that causes shingles is sleeping... in 99% of people over 50. it's lying dormant, waiting... and could reactivate. shingles strikes as a painful, blistering rash that can last for weeks. and it could wake at any time. think you're not at risk for shingles? it's time to wake up. because shingles could wake up in you. if you're over 50, talk to your doctor or pharmacist
about shingles prevention. here's to getting better with age. here's to beating these two every thursday. help fuel today with boost high protein, complete nutrition you need... ...without the stuff you don't. so, here's to now. boost. with nurtec odt i can treat and prevent my migraine attacks all in one. don't take if allergic to nurtec. allergic reactions can occur even days after using. most common side effects were nausea, indigestion and stomach pain. talk to your doctor about nurtec today. i'm daniel lurie talk to your doctor and i've spent my career fighting poverty, helping people right here in san francisco. i'm also a father raising two kids in the city. deeply concerned that city hall is allowing crime and lawlessness to spread. now we can do something about it by voting yes on prop e. a common sense solution that ensures we use community safety cameras to catch repeat offenders and hold them accountable. vote yes on e.
xfinity rewards presents: '1st and 10gs.' xfinity is giving away ten grand to a new lucky winner for every first and ten during the big game. enter daily through february 9th for a chance to win 10gs. with the ultimate speed, power, and reliability the xfinity 10g network is made for streaming live sports. because it's only live once. join xfinity rewards on the xfinity app or go to xfinity1stand10gs.com for your chance to win. >> that is gonna do it for us tonight, thanks very much for being with us. forgive me for having the weird husky voice, it comes from being six, a promise next week will be better. >> good evening everyone i'm ayman mohyeldin, we're continuing our specia