you something and you will learn some things because there are some things that will be said and some things to know. >> the stories to tell. >> trying to win back the house, but they have been fund raising millions of dollars more than the republicans. beating them at their own game. the republicans are very stressed. we saw mike johnson complaining he is being outraised. they are raising money. they are very targeted. they have a bunch of seats to flip. the republican candidates are not great. >> you really do want the democrat with that gavel on january 6. do we have time to play the clip? maybe not. forming this four years ago, and she took it from a simple, humble group chat on zoom all the way to oprah winfrey with it and the vice president of the united states. thank you.
up next.rachelmaddowis here with a very special edition of therachelmaddowshowfollowed by the premiere of her new documentary. just like magic, there she is. >> we never get to do a crossover. i feel like this is a dream come true. we have to bend the spine time space continuum so we can do this other times. >> i agree. we will get some sort of a machine that can do it. >> or we could just call each other. >> i will text you later. have a greatshow. >> i know this is a weird time to see me. you are not used to see me right now, but do not be alarmed. i am not usually here on fridays or at 8:00, but i am here because i wanted to be here for the debut of my new
movie. one hour from now. going to be the broadcast premiere of the first feature documentary from my production company. the movie is called from russia with lev. about the first trump impeachment. we made the film with director billy corbin. in large part because they are very funny. as disastrous and terrible as this scandal was what trump did to get himself impeached for the first time is basically forgotten, but it was really terrible. in equal measure to how terrible it was it was also ridiculous and stupid and hilarious.
that story is the story of the film. it starts at 9:00. we have a normalshowright now. a couple of good guests i am looking forward to talking to. stories that are developing right now as we speak. as soon as this is over at 9:00 eastern it is going to be the movie, and if you do not mind i am going toshowyou the trailer of the movie right now. it is only two minutes. we will do that and jump right into the news. i want you to see the trailer. >> i was as close as you can get to the most powerful man in the world. i thought it was made in heaven. boy was i wrong. we immigrated to the united states when i was four years old. i was on the streets hustling well other kids were going to school. >> he said something, and instantly it was like no one else was in the room.
>> he was not a politician. he was in your counselor, and we could relate. >> how are they meeting with our political leaders? >> chums biggest nightmare was joe biden. >> let's go after joe. let's go after hunter. >> that is how i was recruited by donald trump and rudy guiliani. to dig up dirt on joe biden. >> this was a mission impossible. mission stupid. i do not know which one, but maybe both.
>> i hope one day i can say i am sorry. >> they turned you into this super villain. i wasn't very sympathetic. >> that is it. going to get is broadcast premiere right here at the end of this our. after the movie ends i will be on the 11th hour right here on msnbc to talk about it a little bit. i hope you will stay around for it. my first documentary feature. thank you for indulging me. here is where we are. vice president kamala harris has just wrapped up a big rally in swing state wisconsin tonight moments ago. earlier today she was in swing
state of georgia doing more campaign events. it was a dramatic event be one of the students who was recently shot in the horrific school shooting in georgia was there last night at that event with her mom. both who spoke very emotionally at that event. also the mothers and sisters of a 28-year-old georgia woman who was a mom and a medical assistant. she died because of george's trump abortion ban. a georgia hospital would not do the procedure for her until the infection that she had advanced so far it was impossible to save her life. possibly the first woman to be killed by one of the trump
abortion bans. the family is completely lost for her loss and they were there last night tearfully at that event with oprah winfrey. a very emotional thing and. not sure i have ever seen a presidential campaign event quite like that, but it was really something. the polling averages right now and all of those three swing states i just mentioned. wisconsin where she just wrapped up her event tonight. and all of those crucial swing states harris and trump right now are all within two or three points of each other. if not just outright tied. the race is tied to the
presidential race is tied. in the swing states it is tied, and that is clearly why kamala harris is campaigning her heart out. three major swing states in 24 hours all very high profile events. how are things going on the trump side of the campaign? in contrast to harris jetting from michigan to georgia to wisconsin and this 24-hour period trump in this period has kind of gone fellow today. no events. no trouble. no appearances. do not know what he is doing. that said, that may potentially be for the best for his campaign . i say that because the last event he did for his campaign was yesterday, and it produced headlines like this all day today. this was at huffington post today. if i lose. i should say in paris i need to note that this headline from our friends at huffington post is entirely
accurate. he may think they are exaggerating with a headlight like that, but they are not. here is the drudge report tonight. trump. blame the jewish if i lose. that headline is accurate because that is a fair characterization. that is actually what trump said, and he did it twice. it started at an event that was supposed to be against anti- semitism. stick a pin in that for a moment. he got up at this event yesterday and said this. i'm not going to call this a prediction, but in my opinion, the jewish people would have a lot to do with a loss. meaning that they would have a lot to do with an election lost by him. that was the first event. and then he went to another event the same night last night and said it again even more
pointedly in case people did not get it the first time. he said if i do not when the selection the jewish people would really have a lot to do with that if that happens. these were not closed-door events. these were not off the record events. this is and putting it on the record for the american people. if i lose the election blame the jewish.>> in my opinion the jewish people would have a lot to do with a loss. >> if i do not win this election and the jewish people were really have a lot to do with that if that happens. >> what could possibly go wrong? it is like 2% of the american population. according to the republican candidate for president and former president if anything goes wrong in the next election for him blame the jewish.
it will be the jewish people fault. they are like 2.4% of the american population. put it on them. as i mentioned, the first comments from him were at an event supposed to be in anti- semitism event. what is that again? most of the time it is people saying pay no attention to who is in charge because really it is the jewish in charge, so you can blame them from all bad things. most of the time that is what anti-semitism looks like, which is exactly what trump is doing. just astonishing. 46 days out in the republican candidate for president is telling america if i lose to blend jewish people. that is really where we are in the campaign. returns of its worse because this is not just a couple of comments on adjacent events. it is turning into a theme week for them.
all in the space of a few days we have trump saying twice if i lose the election to blend the jewish people. we also get the release of an interview that his running they did with an rnc primetime speaker. former host from the fox news channel. very famously adjusted as celebratory and totally uncritical to our fan fest interview with a holocaust denier in which they talked about how he was in the bad guy in world war ii. this is a guy to be clear who says we need to be more understanding of the fact that he was just looking for a solution in his words for an acceptable solution to the jewish problem. that is all he was doing. why can't we be more understanding of that? he was not a bad guy. just looking for an acceptable solution to the jewish problem.
after this former fox news host and primetime rnc speaker interviewed him for two hours and praised him as the best public restraint in the country his podcast. his own podcast went to number one in the country. the most notorious and famous godfathers. finally their words are getting out there. the number one podcast in the country on apple podcasts. on the day the white house had to put out a denunciation of that guy in the fact that a primetime speaker just did a laudatory two-hour interview praising him on the same day they had to put out there denunciation of that j.d. vance, the republican nominee for vice president, taped an interview with the same rnc speaker in fox news host who just celebrated america's best public historian. this
holocaust denial guy. so that j.d. vance interview which was taped at that time. it has just come. great timing. in that interview that has just come out he makes the case that we do not really have a democracy in this country. not we shouldn't in the future. not making that argument. saying that we do have a democracy now, and why is it that he things we don't have a democracy now? because he so there is a secret group who really controls things behind the scenes.
>> it is like a junior high school class and how this stuff works. why do these things go together? wouldn't you know it that specific idea also came up. >> if you win and start to fire people who were acting against orders of their commander in chief and expressed will of the voters the question is do you care? >> i think we have to not care. >> we have to not care. we are going to do some people will call it a fascist takeover, but that is not any concern to us. it is what we are going to do, so we are not going to care when they call it a fascist
takeover because our so-called democracy is a sham anyway. would be so bad to give it up since we all know who is really in charge? trump says you can blame them if he loses. this is the worst theme week ever. he did that yesterday twice just after the yes it is going to look like a fascist takeover and no we do not care interview came out. now today they are doing nothing. neither of them doing any campaign stuff at all. tomorrow he will do a live appearance with the same interviewer. a ticketed in for-profit event there trump will go to north carolina where has come to and says he has no plans to distance himself or denounce himself from the republican candidate for governor who trump endorsed. this in canada who are partly announced himself online years ago.
another online post. now the latest reporting tonight is that his online remarks also include him praising mein kampf. so republican gubernatorial candidate mark robinson is denying all of this. rejecting calls to quit the governor's race of north carolina. no republicans in the state appeared to have denounced him for the specific post in which he praises and perk claims himself and no republicans apparently feel the need to distance themselves from him and apparently neither does trump. the deadline for removing them
from the ballot passed at midnight last night, so apparently they are staying with him. this is the worst theme week ever. but it continues. trump is standing by the guy. praises mine comp. he will be going to north carolina tomorrow. tonight on thisshowwe will be speaking with the democratic party chair from north carolina. a real force of nature. one of their young, rising stars. north carolina is super interesting. democrats do not usually win the presidential race in north carolina. in my lifetime it has happened twice. 1976 with jimmy carter and 2008 with barack obama. that is it. republicans do have this guy at the top of their ticket. literally. kamala harris and the democrats right now are running a pretty phenomenal and innovative campaign in north carolina.
we are going to be checking in on that over the course of the hour as the republican implosion in that state continues to develop as a new story tonight. we are also going to be checking in tonight on georgia because it is one thing to talk about how we do not really have a democracy. there is some secret enemy within that that is really in control. elections are all a ruse. it is one thing to talk about it and another thing to see them trying to put it into action. that is why for weeks we have been focusing for that pretty intently on georgia. pro trump republicans telegraphing more than anywhere else in the country that they are going to refused to certify george's election results in november. going to refused to say what the vote totals are. it started and george as it did in many states with individual pro trump republicans and the counties refusing to certify individual election results, but in georgia on the they
already got a head start on the rest of the country there were more certification refusals by georgia republican than in any other state. georgia then went a step further installing pro trump people as majority on the state election board. since that has taken over on the election board that has fiercely been changing all of the state election rules. among other things. to make it seem like it's a legal and allowed thing to refuse to certify the election results. these dynamics in the whirring implications. this is why i wrote in your times op-ed a few weeks ago about what i am most worried about on election night and after.
we should really be prepared as a country there regardless of where you live. local open elections officials in multiple states are going to refuse to sign off on election results and certify them. it will happen in georgia and other swing states and all over the country anywhere republicans have power. when that happens it will generate tons of bogus press reports and social media reports that are all designed to create the impression the american public that something went wrong with the election. that the results somehow cannot be known. if we cannot know the results of the election but does that mean? there will have to be some other way to resolve who is the next president. we will have to figure that out with state legislatures or the congress or the courts. because they are going to say there are republican officials contesting the results. in all of these places. it is all because the trump movement very proudly wants you to believe american elections are bad. that are not hiding this. they are very blunt about that.
>> our elections are bad. >> say it more bluntly. that was him at the debate. our elections are bad. this is the basic message heading into the election a month and a half from now. the way that looks is they have been refusing to certify previous elections since 2020 and have been gearing up to not certify in november. in order to create the false impression that elections are somehow bad and there is no clear result. we will have to do it some other way. that is what i have been worried about and trying to raise the alarm about for weeks, but today they have gone a step further because it is one thing to try to convince people there is something wrong with election results when there really isn't. that is what the certification refusals stuff is about. to try to create the false
impression that something is wrong with an election that actually was fine. something else entirely to actually mess with the election. to actually try to prevent a timely and normal tallying of the results. and that is what happened today and george appeared today in a marathon meeting in georgia the new pro trump majority of the georgia state election board passed a whole bunch of new rules. yet more new rules. 4060s out from the election. including one that requires a hand count of ballots. reminder who they have 11 million people. a quote from the washington post coverage of this shocking
decision in georgia. democracy advocates accused the board of intentionally injecting chaos and uncertainty into the presidential contest. election supervisors and coworkers said hand counts would take too long and cost money and almost certainly produce counting errors. office of the public state attorney general responsible for advising the board wrote in an opinion the change was unlawful. nevertheless, the board voted 3- 2 of the major. research and practice has shown that hand counting ballots is less accurate than machine tallies. and that it can take days or weeks or months depending on the size of the jurisdiction. critics say because the hand counting requirement would almost certainly inject air into the tabulation process they could give county boards the evidence they needed. meaning the pretext. to delay certification. some questioned whether it amounts to intentional sabotage of state elections. it's one thing to say falsely there is something wrong in the elections. another thing to actually monkeywrench the works so that georgia really can't count its vote. radical stuff going on in
georgia. nitrous creating false propaganda, but now moving onto actually creating real election problems for real. they will try to make georgia take months to count. it won't just test our patients. it would break the system because if it will take months at that point the deadlines for george and every other state producing their electoral votes will have long past. the good news is that georgians turned out in significant numbers to say no to this. the opposition was sustained and articulate and very present, and i cannot help but believe that matters. ask somebody who knows. a member of the election boards will join us live next . stay with us.
so, we scheduled at safelite.com. we were able to track our technician and knew exactly when he'd arrive. we can keep working! ♪ synth music ♪ >> woman: safelite came to us. >> tech: hi, i'm kendrick. >> woman: with a replacement we could trust. that's service the way we want it. >> vo: schedule free mobile service now at safelite.com. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪
chase really knows how to put the hart in your local community. see what i did there? hey, jackie! (♪♪) evan, my guy! you're helping them with savings, right? (♪♪) i wish i had someone like evan when i started. somebody just got their first debit card! ice cream on you? ooo, tacos! i got you. wait hold on, don't you owe me money? what?! your money is a part of your community, so your bank should be too. like, chase! my mental health was better. but uncontrollable movements called td, tardive dyskinesia, started disrupting my day. td felt embarrassing.
i felt like disconnecting. i asked my doctor about treating my td, and learned about ingrezza. ♪ ingrezza ♪ ingrezza is clinically proven for reducing td. most people saw results in just two weeks. people taking ingrezza can stay on most mental health meds. number-one prescribed ingrezza has simple dosing for td: always one pill, once daily. ingrezza can cause depression, suicidal thoughts, or actions in patients with huntington's disease. pay close attention to and call your doctor if you become depressed, have a sudden changes in mood, behaviors, feelings or have thoughts of suicide. don't take ingrezza if you're allergic to its ingredients. ingrezza may cause serious side effects, including angioedema, potential heart rhythm problems, and abnormal movements. report fevers, stiff muscles, or problems thinking as these may be life threatening. sleepiness is the most common side effect. take control by asking your doctor about ingrezza. ♪ ingrezza ♪
let's say you're deep in ashowor a game or the game. on a train, at home, at work. okay, maybe not at work. point is at xfinity. we're constantly engineering new ways to get the entertainment you love to you faster and easier than ever. that's what i do. is that love island?
to say we do not know what we are talking about. you would not say that to any other professional. listen to the experts.
>> listen to the experts. that was the local elections director in church today speaking before the state elections board in georgia. before they voted on a whole bunch of new rules that aim to pretty radically change the way elections are run in georgia just a month and a half before election day. the board held a public comment period today before taking the vote. dozens showed up to do what is essentially a civic duty to tell the board face to face to be on the record opposing these radical changes to essentially undo the state elections rules and processes right before the presidential race.>> the recent actions of the board's chaos dramatically undermine trust in our constitutional republic and democratic processes. >> i am glad to serve as a poll worker even though it can be
tiring and stressful at times. all of these proposals are attempting to remedy problems that don't exist. >> this timeline is not just tight but impossible. imagine the uncertainty and confusion and added burden on election workers and county budgets. these rules do not protect our elections. they undermine them. your actions attempt to stack the deck for a particular outcome, and that is the definition of antidemocratic. >> i think what is happening is we are setting up our counties to fail, and when these counties fail. when there are inaccuracies. if there is a result in the election that some of the members of this board do not like they will be able to point to those inaccuracies and say that the election is inaccurate and there is a lack of integrity in the election. >> the last speaker is the
state representative in georgia telling the election board essentially i am on to you and believes the motive behind what they are doing is not just to create an illusion that there is something wrong with the election results but actually to st. george elections up to fail. to make the administration so chaotic and impossible that george actually won't be able to produce a clear result and then they can point at that and say to look at how these problems we should throw out the vote. or at least we should fight over this and have this tied up in court so long that may be the stated votes for the electoral college never make it to washington in time for the electoral college count. joining us now i am happy to say is the lone democrat on the
georgia state election board. she voted against the rule change today that requires hand counting the ballots. thank you for being here. i know it has been a very long day and a stressful period.>> happy to be here. >> and i ask if you feel like i have been mischaracterizing anything that has happened or if you feel that the public understanding broadly as the nation's eyes turned to george if there has been any fundamental misunderstandings about what is happening there or if you feel like they are observing this pretty much understand what is going on. >> we are just weeks away from the election, so for counties to try to retrain their poll workers and poll managers. for them to hire more workers because those that have been out there for 14 to 16 hours per day and are in no shape to count thousands of ballots accurately.
it is absolutely untenable. i do not see any other explanation for this other than exactly as the representative said, which is setting counties up for failure. >> i think a lot of people who have been watching what had been happening particularly now that the secretary of state has weighed in and advised that some of these changes seem to be in contravention of georgia law now that the office has weighed in and said it's beyond the statutory authority of the board. i think a lot of people are saying the board is doing all of these things, but none of that will stand. it will all get blocked by the courts. that the elections won't be affected by the chaos that these rules at least on paper would seem to be injecting into the process. do you share that confidence and they will come to the rescue here and keep george's normal election procedures in place?
>> i certainly have hope that they will do that. confidence. i am not nearly as confident as some of the commentary that i have seen and read. because it's a narrow window in terms of time and the legal theory because it is hard to sue the state. there are sovereign immunity questions that come into play. the fact that my colleagues are willing to completely disregard advice of our counsel. we are represented by the attorney general's office. we were told it's not a lawful use of our authority. that i found actually quite shocking. when he explicitly noted at today's hearing we are taking this action. this is in contravention of the legal advice we have been given about what we are legally allowed to do. i wonder if there might be potential the worries.
that they might have been contravening the georgia law simply by taking this vote and trying to take actions that they are not legally allowed to take. >> you would think, but i also would suspect if they are concerned about it they would have voted differently. just counting the ballots is theater. it does not at actual security. so many ways of making sure that we know how many ballots were cast. it seems that they have some other motive. >> the lunch democrat on the georgia election board. i know that you are in a very difficult spot. the eyes of the nations are on georgia. thank you for taking time to talk to us again. i hope you would not mind
coming again as these things evolve. it will be a very important next 46 days. >> i hope i will have better news next time. >> me too. thank you for your service and for being here. complete nutrition you need, and the flavor you love. so, here's to now... now available: boost max! subject 1: who's coming in the driveway? subject 2: dad! dad, we missed you! daddy, hi! subject 3: i missed you. my daughter is being treated for leukemia. subject 2: mom, mom, mom, mom. subject 3: i hope that she lives a long, great, happy life and that she will never forget how mom and daddy love her. st. jude, this is what's keeping my baby girl alive. subject 4: this september, you can join the battle to save lives during childhood cancer awareness month by supporting st. jude children's research hospital.
for just $19 a month, you'll help us continue the lifesaving research and treatment these kids need now and in the future. subject 5: cancer makes me feel angry, not in the feel on the outside, just the inside. i'm angry at it. [music playing] subject 6: when your kid is hurting and there's nothing you can do about it, that's the worst feeling in the world. [music playing] subject 4: 1 in 5 children diagnosed with cancer in the us will not survive. [music playing] subject 7: those that donate to st jude, i hope that you will continue to give. they have done so much for me and my family. [music playing] subject 4: join with your debit or credit card now and we'll send you this st. jude t-shirt that you can proudly wear. subject 8: [speaking spanish]
subject 9: are you ready to go have some fun? subject 10: yeah! subject 9: yay! subject 11: when we came here, we didn't know what tomorrow would hold. st. jude showed us that tomorrow, there's hope for our little girl to survive. [music playing] subject 4: let's cure childhood cancer together. please donate now. [music playing] (vo) you might be used to living with your albuterol asthma please donate now. rescue inhaler, but it's a bit of a dinosaur, because it only treats your symptoms, not inflammation. treating both symptoms and inflammation with rescue is supported by asthma experts. finally, there's a modern way to treat symptoms and asthma attacks.
airsupra is the first ever dual-action rescue inhaler that treats your asthma symptoms and helps prevent attacks. airsupra is the only rescue fda-approved to do both. airsupra is an as-needed rescue inhaler and should not be used as a maintenance treatment for asthma. get medical help right away if your breathing does not improve, continues to worsen, or for serious allergic reactions. using airsupra more than prescribed could be life threatening. serious side effects include heart problems, increased risk of thrush or infections. welcome to the modern age of dual-action asthma rescue. ask your doctor if airsupra is right for you.
in 2008 barack obama won north carolina by less than a
third of a point. the only time that they have done that in the past 48 years since jimmy carter. they are optimistic right now about their chances in north carolina. that is thanks in some part of to republicans decision to nominate mark robinson as their candidate for governor. a man with more offensive positions than all of north carolina's college football teams combined. new cnn reporting has found that he allegedly posted in an online pornography for many years ago that he wants to bring back slavery. that he enjoyed a personal history of spying on women in public jim showers. they have also described his history of it disparaging martin luther king. with starkly racist terms. it goes on and on. latest reporting includes his praise for mein kampf.
nbc news has intimately verified those posts. mr. robinson is denying making them. his and al qaeda weirdly was these are not our words. who else's words are they not? democratic presidential candidate kamala harris is already out with a new ad featuring her opponent donald trump heaping praise on mark robinson. new yorker today. what is kamala harris's biggest fight in the state? getting people to believe that winning is possible. that's what will turn out people to vote. clayton, looking to the
marchers and rural counties like the one where she grew up. she said i was like give me a day. people get excited when they see her. people are ready to run through a wall. joining us now from raleigh. the chair of the north carolina democratic party. thank you for being here. >> thank you for having us. >> the mark robinson news is bad and weird and it keeps getting worse and weirder. i wanted to ask for your reaction. >> at least 170 assigned around
the state. are you pleased with the way the harris campaign and democrats have been able to structure an organization to try to win the state? >> absolutely. we have been in coordination with our campaign this year and also making sure candidates across the state feel the impact of the selection. ensuring we have a ground game with our project team and making sure every county will have a get out to vote staging location this year to help with
doorknocking and canvassing efforts across the state because we want to make sure we have those efforts happening. we know that the vote that joe biden lost in 2020 brought down the margin that we sigh hillary clinton lose in 2016. we know we can bring those margins back with every single voter across north carolina coming up. if anybody would like to get involved they can go help us out. >> changing the narrative in a lot of ways about whether or not rural areas it should be written off as republican areas. changing that around the country by doing the work. thank you very much for being with us. look forward to having you back.>> thank you.   we will be right back. citi's industry leading global payments solutions help their clients move money
around the world seamlessly in over 180 countries... and help a partner like the world food programme as they provide more than food to people in need. together, citi and the world food programme empower families across the globe. ♪♪ (♪♪) your yard is your sanctuary. where you should feel free. i know... i was talking about the dogs. [barking] they need their lawn back fast, and you need scotts turf builder rapid grass. it's a revolutionary mix of seed and fertilizer that grows grass 2 times faster than just seed alone. giving you a stronger lawn. release the hounds! smell that freedom, eh? i smell it! i'm still talking to the dogs. download the my lawn app today for lawn care tips and customized plans. feed your lawn. feed it. subject 1: who's coming in the driveway? subject 2: dad! dad, we missed you! daddy, hi! subject 3: i missed you. my daughter is being treated for leukemia.
subject 2: mom, mom, mom, mom. subject 3: i hope that she lives a long, great, happy life and that she will never forget how mom and daddy love her. st. jude, this is what's keeping my baby girl alive. subject 4: this september, you can join the battle to save lives during childhood cancer awareness month by supporting st. jude children's research hospital. for just $19 a month, you'll help us continue the lifesaving research and treatment these kids need now and in the future. subject 5: cancer makes me feel angry, not in the feel on the outside, just the inside. i'm angry at it. [music playing] subject 6: when your kid is hurting and there's nothing you can do about it, that's the worst feeling in the world. [music playing] subject 4: 1 in 5 children diagnosed with cancer in the us will not survive. [music playing] subject 7: those that donate to st jude,
i hope that you will continue to give. they have done so much for me and my family. [music playing] subject 4: join with your debit or credit card now and we'll send you this st. jude t-shirt that you can proudly wear. subject 8: [speaking spanish] subject 9: are you ready to go have some fun? subject 10: yeah! subject 9: yay! subject 11: when we came here, we didn't know what tomorrow would hold. st. jude showed us that tomorrow, there's hope for our little girl to survive. [music playing] subject 4: let's cure childhood cancer together. please donate now. [music playing] with bugs, the struggle-is-real. that's why you need zevo traps. zevo works 24/7 to attract and trap flying insects. for effortless protection. zevo. people-friendly. bug-deadly.
i used to leak urine when i coughed, laughed or exercised. i couldn't even enjoy playing with my kids. i leaked too. i just assumed it was normal. then we learned about bulkamid - an fda-approved, non-drug solution for our condition. it really works, and it lasts for years. it's been the best thing we've done for our families. visit findrealrelief.com to find an expert physician near you. ask if bulkamid is right for you and discuss potential risks. results and experiences may vary. move beyond the leaks.
f0   so just in time for the lawsuits that are sure to follow this chaos that was created by the georgia state election board today. today we also got this friendly reminder for attorneys in georgia. a reminder from some of their fellow lawyer, kwoeut, don't lose quote, don't lose your law license because of trump. this is running in georgia reminding lawyers about what
happened to the last lawyers. the ad comes from a legal watchdog group called the 65 project. it's named after the 65 failed lawsuits that protrump lawyers filed to try to overturn the election votes. many of those lawyers involved in the fake electors clause. many of them have faced judicial sanctions. some have been tried. some have had their law licenses suspend. now the 65 project is reminding lawyers that's what happened. they're running web ads, print ads like this one will be appearing in legal journals in those states. you see the headline, don't let partisan politics endanger your standing with the bar. lawyers take an oath to stand as officers of the court bond
by ethical obligations that require them to speak truthfully to the court and the public. lawyers cannot uphold that duty by bringing factually and legally basement claims. do not risk your law license by joining an effort to subvert democracy. this is lawyers to lawyers. in historian tim schneider's essential little handbook on tyranny. 20 lessons from the 20th century. lesson number five of the 20 is this. remember professional ethics. when political leaders set a negative examples, professional commitment to just practice become more important. it is hard to subvert a rule of law state without lawyers and without judges. when trump comes to your state looks for lawyers to file lawsuits to overthrow election
results. if the legal profession is doing its job he should have a hard time finding lawyers to do that. among all of other professions, policing their own members so they don't participate in anti democratic schemes. that's what project 65 is doing. providing a very concrete example of how to do just that. their first ad in georgia lands on this warning. quote, we and the public are watching. this is one very specific form of democracy in action. democracy being defended by people, by citizens who are not worried about going on offense to do it. that's what it looks like. we'll be right back. huh? did you know i can assist with grocery shopping, banking, landscaping? on a scale of 1 to 10,
how would rate my performance? [ peep ] i will register that as a 10. i love that my daughter still needs me. but sometimes i can't help due to burning and stabbing pain in my hands, so i use nervive. nervive's clinical dose of ala reduces nerve discomfort in as little as seven days. now i can help again feel the difference with nervive. chase really knows how to put the hart in your local community. see what i did there? hey, jackie! (♪♪)
evan, my guy! you're helping them with savings, right? (♪♪) i wish i had someone like evan when i started. somebody just got their first debit card! ice cream on you? ooo, tacos! i got you. wait hold on, don't you owe me money? what?! your money is a part of your community, so your bank should be too. like, chase! -cologuard®? -cologuard. cologuard! -screen for colon cancer. -at home, like you want. -you the man! cologuard is for people 45+ at average risk, not high risk. false positive and negative results may occur. ask your provider for cologuard. ♪ i did it my way ♪ remember when they said you've got your whole life ahead of you? at unitedhealthcare, we say you still do.
♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ it's nice to know you're free to focus on what matters, with reliable medicare coverage from unitedhealthcare. ♪♪ could this be menopause? clearblue menopause stage indicator uses an app that combines your age, cycle data, and fsh hormone levels over time in a personalized report to share with your doctor to get the clarity you need.
i'm a little nervous and excited. basket full of butterflies
behind this desk tonight. this is something i've never done before. but here it is, this is a project, a movie i've been worked on for a while now. it is from russia with lev. director billy corbin and producer spellmann. you're about to see the film is centered on a guy named lev. a hustler really who grew up in the world of russian organized crime. he ended up in the white house. the trump white house of course. lev is repentant about what he did. he also recorded and took pictures of everything he did. as he did it. and what he did not only put himself in prison, but it led to the first impeachment of donald trump which is much forgotten right by now because of everything that happened thereafter. but it's still, very important and also very stupid. all right from