c1   okay i know this has been a crazy election cycle and it's only going to get crazier over the next few months. you're looking for a group of expert, friends, new friends, old friends to break down what matters most in these final weeks leading up to november. we have just the thing for you. you can scan the qr code on your screen to join us msnbc live, democracy 2024 is going to be in brooklyn on the 27th. so come out, hang out with me, my friends, wagner, hayes, waggner. think of it as a much much nerdier version of the avengers for msnbc watchers. if you go, you will get the chance to watch the new movie produced by it. it breaks down the wild scheme that led to the first donald trump impeachment. that's it for me, "therachel
maddowshow" starts now. >> thank you. we're going to release the first clip ever from that movie. nobody has seen a trailer or any clips. we're going toshowthe first clip. >> i can't wait. i'm going to run upstairs. >> very good. thank you. i'm very excited but nervous for it to be in the world. excited about it. thanks very much for you at home for joining us. i'm super happy to have you here. and we're going toshowthat clip this hour of the thing i've been working on for ages and ages and ages. hope you like it. in a presidential election year, all eyes, understandably, are on the two major party presidential campaigns. we now have had both the republican national convention and the democratic national convention. every day we have new rounds of polling, national and swing state polls are generally telling the same story. a story that vice president kamala harris is doing
significantly better against donald trump than president biden had been doing in his campaign. comparably better news for democrats, they're better than before the switch from biden to harris. in absolute terms, national and swing state polls broadly speaking don't give either party a reason to celebrate. vice president harris is doing better than biden but not clearly winning against trump. it's basically a tie between the two candidates right now. that produces all sorts of interesting dynamics to watch for. this close, little differences between the candidates and campaigns can make a very interesting -- not only an interesting contrast but can make a big difference in the ultimate result. for example, right now trump's campaign appears to be
maneuvering to try to get him out of the one debate he agreed to with kamala harris. that's supposed to happen two weeks from now, september 10th. but trump's campaign and trump himself are apparently trying to get out of it. the harris campaign has cut this together of him complaining about the terms of the debate. they've overlaid the sound with the sound -- overlaid the sound of him complaining with the sounds of chickens clucking. they're clearly baiting him about this. but it does seem like trump and his campaign are trying to get him out of it. they may be trying to get all the way to the election without a debate. and his campaign events are getting a little bit weird. in arizona a few days ago, there was a backstage camera angle that caught this on the teleprompter as kerry lake was
speaking. minus 5:35, you're over your allotted team. please get off the stage. but look. almost a minute later there's this other shot. she's now minus 6:23, six minutes and 23 seconds over her allotted time and now the instruction says please get offstage, trump waiting. this is the same event when trump got an endorsement from an arizona police union, and while the union president was making his pro-trump remarks and giving the endorsement, it seems like trump got bored or annoyed and crept up and loomed over his shoulder and frowning at him while he was speaking. at one point he apparently tells the guy to get lost and get off the stage. the police union guy appears a little rattled or startled,
flipping through the pages, gets his stuff together and awkwardly slinks off because trump told him to get out. that's a nice way to receive an endorsement. that was on friday in glendale, arizona. and now today, that same police union announced they're endorsing the democratic u.s. senate candidate in arizona running against republican kari lake, they're endorsing gallego. they had given trump's endorsement, presumably couldn't be reeled back in. but if this was trump trying to turn on the charm to also get this union's endorsement for the republican senate candidate he was ostensibly there to support, we know how good he is at sharing the glory, the spotlight. get off stage, trump waiting. like i said, when it is this
close, essentially a tie, it is worth watching even the small differences and nuances between the two campaigns because anything could be determinative. over the course of this hour we'll have news about how democrats appear to have put north carolina back on their side of the electoral map or they hope to have. interesting story there. and as i mentioned to jen, i'm going toshowthis hour the very first clip we're released from a new movie i helped make. it's about the first trump impeachment. and you probably think you know all there is to know about trump's first impeachment. you don't. and i think that story, bizarrely, ends up being not just really entertaining, in the way we've told it, i think, it is for me. but i think it is particularly relevant as trump is running for
re-election. we have that clip of "from russia with love" coming up. i'll tell you how you can get tickets to see the movie. anyway. there's lots to watch between the two campaigns. and it's understandable in presidential election years all eyes are on the top level contest, the two major parties and their presidential candidates. but in a presidential election year like this, just two months to go until the big day, may i also suggest that you don't sleep on what is happening in the states. yes, watch the two major parties and their two candidates and the way the presidential campaigns fight each other and nuances of how they compete. but watch what is happening in the states because sometimes even in an election year what is happening in the states just seems like it can't possibly actually be happening. for example, how is this for a
local news lead this weekend in michigan? >> things got off to an odd start at the michigan republican party convention in flint today. former michigan gop chair was escorted out of the event by police. >> yes, that is an odd start, things did get off to an odd start. even if this weren't the state republican party and one of the most important swing states in the country in a presidential election year, yes, sounds like an odd start for the michigan republican party state convention. >> former michigan gop chair carama, who was ousted from leadership, made an appearance at the event but was removed by flint police. new chair was greeted by some boos as he took the stage. >> we've had problems in this
state party. >> officials say she was asked to take a seat, refused, then asked to leave and refused again. then law enforcement escorted her out for causing a disruption and clogging up the floor. >> causing a disruption and clogging up the floor. a detroit news reporter was able to capture this view of the former state republican party chair being escorted out of the state republican party convention by police. it was followed by some pushing and shoving, maybe a little punching. it's hard to tell exactly what is going on there. but clearly something that is not politics is happening here, as police are called in to remove from the state republican party convention the woman who claims she still is the chair of the michigan republican party. she was elected in 2023, removed in january 2024, this year, she refused to go. in february a michigan court ruled she had to go.
this summer she was still trying to get the courts to reinstate her, and the cops were called in this weekend to get her out of the floor of the state party convention. did i mention this is one of the most important states in the country for the presidential race and we're two months from the election? ostensible state chairman is booed off the state, and the person who claims to be the real party chair is escorted out by police. it's been months in the michigan state republican party they've been calling the cops on each other and getting in fist fights at their official republican party events. we pay so much attention to how the two presidential campaigns are doing, competing in swing state polls. it's worth noticing when things
are absolutely bananas with one of the parties in those states. it's not only happening in one state. lot not long off the michigan republican party went to war with itself, not long after that, a version happened in the state of florida. right after michigan threw out their state republican party chair, florida threw out theirs, too, following news reports he was being investigated by police for allegations of rape. police also said they were investigating him for video voyeurism charges for allegedly recording a sexual encounter without consent. the republican party threw him out and police later cleared him of the charges in both investigations. on the heels of that, the state of arizona lost their state republican chair, too. that same republican senate
candidate who awkwardly appeared with trump this weekend, kari lake released secretly recorded audio tapes of the republican chairman in which she said he was trying to bribe her to leave the senate race. she reportedly threatened to wee lease more tapes of him, so he quit as arizona state republican party chairman. on the heels of that, the national republican party lost its chair, too. ronna mcdaniel pushed out to make room for donald trump's daughter-in-law. her experience for the job was being a singer and being married to one of trump's sons, the blond one. that seemed like a meritocratic choice, mcdaniel had to go. that's all in this year.
michigan, florida, arizona, the national republican party, they all lost their top leadership under embarrassing if not terrible circumstances. all in a crucial election year. and now it's happened again. this time in colorado. >> we start tonight with big news in colorado politics. the state's republican party chairman is out. dave williams, and other party leaders, were voted out as leadership of the colorado gop today. but they've said they consider today's meeting and vote fake. the meeting started at moon and is still going. republican party members are voting who will now lead the state party. our reporter has been there all day. >> reporter: it's 2 1/2 months until election day and colorado republican party members are fighting their own leader. >> those who say don't change a rider in the middle of a race,
that's a valid argument unless the rider is trying to kill the horse. >> that is a valid argument unless the rider is trying to kill the horse. that was this weekend, saturday. as colorado republican party officials met to vote out their state party chairman, who they said was destroying the party. for his part, it's a little bit like what happened in michigan. the republican party chair in colorado is refusing to recognize the validity of the vote to remove him because of course he is. he says the meeting this saturday in brighton, colorado, where they voted to fire him, he said it was quote a sham, illegitimate and illegal. as of sunday, the day after they voted to fire him, he still had custody of the letterhead on which to release his statement that it was a sham and he's still in charge.
maybe possession is nine-tenths of the law, you're still party chairman if you have 8 1/2 by 11 letterhead with your name on it. i don't know. who knows? one person who says she's still the chair of the party in michigan was escorted out of that party's state convention by cops while fists flew. another person says he's still the chair in colorado was voted out by other republicans but he says the vote doesn't count and he has the letterhead to prove it, he's still the real chair and will convene his own meeting and everyone will see who is really in charge. doesn't it seem like a great idea to put those folks and that party in charge of the whole country? then there's georgia. for a few weeks now we've been covering sort of increasingly astonishing story about what is happening, not to politics
broadly, but specifically to the election system in georgia. one of the things that has happened over the last four years since trump tried to overturn his loss in 2020, is that the republican party has installed election officials in counties and states across the country who not only parrot trump's idea that the 2020 election was somehow stolen, but they have somehow started doing what he wanted election officials to do for him in 2020, started refusing to certify election results. now they've done this in a number of states around the country, some blue, some swing, some red states. but the state where republicans have done this more often than any other state in the country is georgia. and georgia, you will recall, is a state where trump was indicted for multiple felonies under state law, including a rico charge, for efforts to overthrow
the election results and get georgia to declare he was winner, even though he lost that state. republicans are now trying these gambits to block the certification of election results everywhere but most aggressively in georgia. over the last few weeks an alarming situation has emerged. there's a newly appointed pro-trump majority on the official state georgia election board and in recent weeks they've passed a flurry of new rules that purport to legalize some of these tactics and empower local election officials to do this stuff, block or delay the certification of the vote. and this state election board in georgia is apparently planning to do much more of this as we're getting closer to the election date. the "washington post" just reported that the election board plans to adopt nearly a dozen
additional rules beyond the new ones they've just put into effect over coming weeks. quote, despite warnings from state and local officials that the lateness of the calendars all but guarantees confusion in the state. part of understanding the importance of the tactics is confusion and mistakes is probably the point. it's another thing to say we want and claim the right to essentially report there's no knowable result here. there isn't any discernible result, there's a big question about it, seems like there's a cloud over the result. if you cannot just directly flip the result but create a sense there's some confusion, some lack of clarity, something wrong with the way the election was conducted, so a result isn't organically and clearly
emerging, that can justify doing all sorts of extraordinary, strange stuff to come up with what purports to be an election result in that state. so i will be honest with you, i have found that these actions by the state election board in georgia have just been jaw dropping. i've been covering this kind of stuff for a long time. i've covered a lot of different versions of these things, not just in trump era but from republicans in elections before this. but i've never seen what's happened in georgia in recent weeks. it's not just the trump campaign making crazy claims or people advocating for the state to do crazy stuff. this is the state, the official election board who sets the rules for elections in georgia not just discussing crazy stuff but passing rules that are rudy giuliani hair dye dripping down the face crazy.
not just asking someone to do crazy stuff with the election, they're the board, they're doing it. i'll be honest, watching the georgia situation with their state election board the past few weeks has tripled my blood pressure. it's been worrying me so much i wrote an op-ed in the sunday "new york times" and it's not like me to do something like that. but i have been very worried. now i got to tell you, in today's news, something appears to be breaking on this subject. shenanigans have got pushback. local officials have been fighting the radical, late rules that seem to be designed to give republicans cover to refuse to declare the official results of the election in november, local
officials, voter registration, local officials at county level and beyond have been pushing back. state legislators and congresswoman spoke at the state capital, demanding that they be stopped from trying to mug the elections process in the state and doing so in a way that seems to violate the rules by which bodies like this are supposed to operate. after that press conference today two really interesting things happened. first the republican governor of georgia, brian kemp, did something interesting. he made a request to the attorney general asking for clarification if he has the power to remove members of the elections board if it's warranted by ethics concerns. that is fascinating. we'll see what the attorney
general says to that inquiry. i inspect it will be quickly. if brian kemp decides to remove the pro-trump board members upending the election process weeks before the election, wow. i don't know, watch this space. that would be a very big deal. that's one big thing that happened today. also late today, a new lawsuit was filed from the democratic party of georgia and the national democratic party. they say with support from the harris/walz campaign. as of tonight, they are suing the state election board in georgia to stop them from what they've been doing. the democrats' big new lawsuit filed tonight asks georgia state courts to make clear that local trump loyalist officials don't get to make it up as they go when it comes to certifying the election results, no matter what the state election board has been telling them.
local officials can't just opt out of certifying the results or decide on their own to delay the certification to try to blow through electoral college deadlines to prevent their votes from being counted in washington. the democrats' lawsuit asking georgia courts to act quickly and clarify that what the maga board has been trying to do, can't be done. and the rules they've been trying to pass to give local officials the leeway to mess up the vote count in georgia that it's not real and legally they must certify and there's no way to mess it up. honestly, i've been wondering and worrying for a few weeks now whether the democrats push back their challenge to georgia would be strong enough and quick enough to make sure georgia voters can vote in a normal
collection, so their votes are collected and they matter to choose the president of the u.s. kamala harris and tim walz have doing a georgia tour this week, a big event in savannah, going for it in georgia as they should. but in a presidential election year, as important as it is to watch the way the two major party candidates are campaigning, see the way they're competing to try to win the presidency, it is also worth watching what happens in the states. the radical stuff that republicans have been doing to the georgia state election infrastructure means that democrats need to try both to earn people's vote in georgia this year in traditional terms, but democrats also need to fight this whole other fight to force the republicans to actually consent to count the vote as well. as of tonight, we know what some
of the democratic pushback looks like. the harris/walz campaign says quote, for months maga republicans in georgia and across the country have been trying to lay the groundwork to contest the election results when they lose again in november. but democrats are prepared to stop them. certifying an election is not the choice, it is the law. a few elected extremists can't just not count your vote. we have case after case in course, and we will win this to fight that every eligible voter can confidently cast their vote knowing it will count. that's from the harris/walz campaign as the democratic party nationally and in georgia file a big lawsuit in georgia to try to stop what trump republicans are trying to do there to mess up the vote count.
finally, a big democratic punch back against thus far the worst election shenanigans in the whole country, in georgia. we have lots to get to, stay with us. to get to, stay with us. honey. nyquil severe honey. powerful cold and flu relief with a dreamy honey taste nyquil honey, ♪ me and my friends ♪ ♪♪ ♪ it's feeling right, ♪ ♪ we're loving life when we're together ♪ ♪ me and my friends ♪ ♪♪ ♪ we feel the height of lustful life ♪ ♪ when we're together ♪ life is better with the credit gods are on your side. rewards once available to the few are now accessible to the many. credit one bank. get cash back rewards, and live large. we realize some home maintenance jobs aren't worth the risk.
that's when we call leaffilter to protect our gutters. leaffilter's patented filter technology keeps debris out of your gutters for good, guaranteed. call 833 leaffilter or visit leaffilter.com stains happen to the best of us. i bet carl lewis doesn't get tomato sauce on his jacket. dang it. urghh! when they do, tide's got you covered. —looking good, man. —learned it from you! it's got to be tide.
no matter what kind of teeth you gotta brush, oral-b electric cleans better with one simple touch. oral-b's dentist inspired round brush head hugs em, cleans em, and gets in between em, for 100% cleaner teeth. your perfect clean starts with oral-b. introducing new advil targeted relief. the only topical pain reliever
with 4 powerful pain-fighting ingredients that start working on contact to target tough pain at the source. for up to 8 hours of powerful relief. new advil targeted relief. i came to bayview hunter's point, where there was only one pediatrician for up to 8 hours of powerful relief. to serve more than 10,000 children. daniel lurie said, i'm going to help. we opened a clinic for our most vulnerable children. i have worked shoulder to shoulder with him as we have brought solutions where people thought the problem was unsolvable. daniel doesn't take excuses. he holds himself accountable. and i know that he can do it for the city of san francisco.
so here it is, filed this afternoon in superior court in fulton county, georgia, a 45-page lawsuit by the georgia and national democratic parties,
suing the state election board over this recent rash of strange new rules that the state election board has just passed to the growing alarm of local elections officials. rules that threaten the boring, technocratic process of counting votes to determine who won. democrats say the republican majority is trying to turn the straightforward and mandatory process of certifying the vote into a broad license for individual county election board members to delay certification of the vote. they say the new rules are designed to quote, invite chaos. the new lawsuit follows an ethics complaint from the recent former chair of the fulton county board of elections, another from a democratic state senator, and they asked governor brian kemp of georgia to remove
the republican appointees who voted for radical changes before the fall's election. and amazingly, it appears that governor kemp might be thinking about doing that. his office today said he's seeking advice from the state attorney general about when he has the authority as governor to take someone off the board. as the republicans have tried a brazen takeover of the elections infrastructure of the state, the pushback has become ferocious and interesting. there is an emerging sense in georgia and beyond that the trump loyalists who took over the state elections board may have gone too far. they passed new rules that add requirements for certifying the vote that let any member of a county board demand reams of documents to avoid certifying the election. and they've queued up 11 more suggested rules to follow, 11
more changes in the way georgia administers elections, about poll watchers, absentee ballots, counting by hand, and, and, and. they plan to vote on the changes next month and say they want to roll them out to 159 georgia counties before election day on november 5th. they don't even want the rules to exist until the end of september, then want all the counties in georgia to have radically changed everything about the way they administer elections by november 5th. counties are saying in effectively one voice, there's no way to do that even if they were good faith changes. in the georgia state capital today, with governor kemp considering to take action, georgia democrats called for him to do more than think about it. >> today i'm joining my esteemed
colleagues in calling for governor kemp to hold members of the state elections rule accountable, to stand up for the rule of law and ensure our democratic process is protected. he must not allow our state elections board to be taken over by donald trump. >> joining us now, georgia democratic congresswoman lucy mcbeth. i appreciate you joining us tonight. >> thank you. >> put in your own words what you think is going on with the georgia state election board. i've been watching with increasing levels of alarm and high blood pressure. but how would you make the country listening now understand what they're trying to do? >> thank you so much for even asking,rachel. the fight for equal rights is
person, i saw up close how much the civil rights leaders sacrificed that we have a voice in this country. and my dad took me, in the stroller, at the march on washington. i'm absolutely appalled to see we're still fighting the very same fight today my parents and our civil rights icons before us have been fighting. and in our state, we've witnessed incredible progress up to this point. georgia elected joe biden and kamala harris, electing two state senators. but in response to that, we see that donald trump has tried to overtly steal the georgia election. and these rules passed by the state elections board make it much easier for them to do so. georgians know that trump is working to sow chaos and division and roll back our democracy. and we've refused to let that
happen. we are not going back. thanks to state leaders like senator islam-parks and state rep park, these efforts to subvert our democracy are not going to go unchallenged. >> the process from here on out seems interesting and a little bit unpredictable. because there's intra-republican dynamics going on, too, governor kemp asking the state attorney general to clarify if he has the power as governor to remove members of the board. i saw arguments from people who spoke alongside you at the capital that said the governor has that authority and can and must investigate the candidates who voted for the changes close to the major election. do you expect governor kemp to
take action to stop the harm that the board is doing? >> well i'm not an attorney or lawyer, but every lawyer i have spoken to says that the law is very, very clear and governor kemp is legally required to follow this law. georgia is the birthplace of the civil rights movement. from john lewis to martin luther king, andrew young, the list goes on, if we truly believe in our democratic values and process, we have a responsibility to continue their fight. how is brian kemp going to claim he's for law and order but refuse to follow the law? we have to remember that brian kemp's second in command, let's remember this, lieutenant governor jones, is a fake elector who attempted to overturn the election in georgia. georgians are working hard to stop this chaos.
we cannot let donald trump take control of the state elections board. we must stand up to the rule of law and we hope our governor will do the same. >> congresswoman lucy mcbath, thanks for making time for us. it landed differently to see you as a member of congress standing with the state legislators making the case in the capital. i know it's all hands on deck. thanks for helping us understand it. >> thank you. >> we have much more ahead. stay with us. . >> we have much more ahead stay with us (tony hawk) skating for over 45 years has taken a toll on my body. i take qunol turmeric because it helps with healthy joints and inflammation support. why qunol? it has superior absorption compared to regular turmeric. qunol.
the brand i trust. smile! you found it. the feeling of finding psoriasis can't filter out the real you. so go ahead, live unfiltered with the one and only sotyktu, a once-daily pill for moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, and the chance at clear or almost clear skin. it's like the feeling of finding you're so ready for your close-up. or finding you don't have to hide your skin just your background. once-daily sotyktu was proven better, getting more people clearer skin than the leading pill. don't take if you're allergic to sotyktu; serious reactions can occur. sotyktu can lower your ability to fight infections, including tb. serious infections, cancers including lymphoma, muscle problems, and changes in certain labs have occurred. tell your doctor if you have an infection, liver or kidney problems, high triglycerides, or had a vaccine or plan to. sotyktu is a tyk2 inhibitor. tyk2 is part of the jak family. it's not known if sotyktu has the same risks as jak inhibitors. find what plaque psoriasis has been hiding. there's only one sotyktu, so ask for it by name. so clearly you.
sotyktu. that grimy film on your teeth? dr. g? ♪♪ it's actually the buildup of plaque bacteria which can cause cavities. most toothpastes quit working in minutes. but crest pro-health's antibacterial fluoride protects all day. so it stops cavities before they start... crest.
why do couples choose a sleep number smart bed? soi need help withes befoher snoring.t... sleep number does that. thank you. during our biggest sale of the year, save 50% on the sleep number® limited edition smart bed and free delivery when you add any base. >> at university of maryland global campus, getting a bachelor's degree doesn't have to mean starting from scratch. here you can earn up to 90 undergraduate credits for relevant experience. what will your next success be?

look at presidential polling averages from the swing states, it's clear who has the momentum right now. according to the "washington post" polling averages, kamala harris and donald trump are practically tied in all seven swing states, but the momentum is with the democrats since president biden decided not to run for re-election. harris has increased democrats' lead in just about every state at least three points, no small feat in any of these tight races and hard-fought states. but it's particularly striking in north carolina where democrats haven't won the presidential rate since 2008. the enthusiasm of harris and strength of her campaign has something to do with it, but there's something else in north carolina.
voters will be also choosing a new governor. guy on the left is the democratic nominee, josh stein. right side of the screen is the republicans' pick, mark robinson. you know the movie "black panther"? the republican candidate for governor says that movie was quote created by an agnostic jew and put to film by a satanic marxist. he says the music industry is run by satan and the illuminati. he calls gay people filth and maggots. and says kids who survive gun massacres are media prost-tots and need to shut up. with that record, survey says -- even in a closely fought state,
they don't want that guy. the republican candidate is polling 14 points behind his democratic opponent josh stein. democrats are hoping to beat him and hoping he will be such a drag on republicans up and down the ticket to give kamala harris and every other democrat on the ballot a considerable boost. north carolina democrats have announced an epic get out the vote effort for young voters in particular. 30 college events in 30 days, 30 campuses. led by anderson clayton, chair of the north carolina democratic party, the youngest of any in the country. miss clayton, thanks for being here. i appreciate your time. >> thank you for having us. >> i'm looking at this through
an admittedly reductive lens about the top of the ticket in your state. are their nuances or angles that i ought to be noticing or give people a different impression how things will be fought in the state? >> no, i think you laid out the case against mark robinson just fine. also the extremism at the top of the ticket we're finding runs straight down the ballot as well. north carolina is one of 11 states that elect a council of states, it's not just the governor's office but nine other positions. jeff jackson running against dan bishop, the author of the bathroom bill in north carolina. it cost north carolina over $3 billion. maura running against green to be superintendent of schools who called for public execution of barack obama to be publicly televised.
she belongs nowhere near our classrooms right now, and green made the case that children and public schools matter more than anything. it's not just donald trump and mark robinson, the extreme runs throughout, down to the state legislative races that fully endorsed what robinson stands for. not one republican in our state separated themselves from him this year. >> i was going to ask about that dynamic, sometimes the extremism you get opens up the opportunity for the nonextremist party, in this case, the democrats, to win crossover voters and target a different audience than in a typical election, not just independents but republicans to cross over and vote for the more sane ticket. how are you allocating resources and thinking about the type of
messaging, events and spending you're doing in your party to maximize persuadable voters? >> we have a campaign reaching people across the state. we've taken the approach this year that everybody is somebody worth talking to. because of the fact we have public servants running for the positions. stein has been a consumer protection person before he was attorney general, always been protecting the people of north carolina, and it's important that folks realize that's not just a democrat running on your ballot, that's someone who cares about everybody up and down the ticket this year, and looks at people like natasha marcus running for commissioner of insurance in north carolina. talk about the races that affect your pocket books most, we've had over 16 rate hikes in our state because a republican commissioner of insurances that allowed them to happen.
it's taken insurance money this year while he's been in the commissions office, not working for the people of north carolina. we have a state senator, marcus, running against him and she's promised not to take a dime of insurance corporation money to make sure that people of north carolina knows who she represents. that should appeal to anybody, not just with a d behind your name. we're trying to speak to everybody, really. >> anderson clayton, chair of the democratic party in north carolina. every time i've spoken to you about your state, i learn something new. you're a great communicator on behalf of your party. and looking forward to seeing what's next for you. thank you so much. >> thank you. >> all right, we'll be right back. stay with us. as a police administrator. i oversee approximately 20 people and my memory just has to be sharp. and i realized,
my memory was just changing. i did my own research and i decided to give prevagen a try. my memory became much sharper. i remembered more! i've been taking prevagen for four years now. it's a life-changer. prevagen. at stores everywhere without a prescription. if you're living with hiv, imagine being good to go without daily hiv pills. good to go off the grid. good to go nonstop. with cabenuva, there's no pausing for daily hiv pills. for adults who are undetectable, cabenuva is the only complete, long-acting hiv treatment you can get every other month. it's two injections from a healthcare provider. just 6 times a year. don't receive cabenuva if you're allergic to its ingredients or if you're taking certain medicines which may interact with cabenuva. serious side effects include allergic reactions, post-injection reactions, liver problems, and depression. if you have a rash and other allergic reaction symptoms, stop cabenuva and get medical help right away.
tell your doctor if you have liver or kidney problems, mental health concerns, and if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or considering pregnancy. some of the most common side effects include injection-site reactions, fever, and tiredness. with cabenuva, you're good to go. ask your doctor about switching. (children speaking)
millions of children are fighting to survive due to inequality, conflict, poverty and the climate crisis. save the children® is working alongside communities to provide a better life for children. and there's a way you can help. please call or go online to give just $10 a month. only $0.33 a day. we urgently need 1000 new monthly donors in the next 30 days to help the children we support around the world. you can help provide food, medicine, care and protection, plus so much more that a child needs by calling right now and giving just $10 a month.
all we need are 1000 monthly donors in the next 30 days. please call or go online now with your monthly gift of just $10. thanks to generous government grants, every dollar you give can have up to ten times the impact. and when you call with your credit card, we will send you this save the children® tote bag as a thank you for your support. your small monthly donation of just $10 could be the reason a child in crisis survives. please call or go online to givetosave.org to help save lives.
what do you think is the main inaccuracy or main lie that's being told that you feel like you can correct? >> that the president didn't know what was going on. president trump knew exactly what was going on. he was aware of all of my movements. i wouldn't do anything without the consent of rudy giuliani or the president. >> at the start of 2020, i interviewed a man named lev parness, and he ended up the key
man in the quid pro quo scheme that led to his impeachment. trump literally said i don't know him. perhaps he's a fine man, perhaps he's not, i know nothing about him. but he did know lev parnas. he kept all the receipts, secret recordings even. when you put them all together, they tell a story about the first trump impeachment that will blow your mind. you will not quite believe this is a thing that happened in the way it did and we all lived through it and the guy that did it is trying to become president again. this is the focus of a new documentary i helped to make. it's called "from russia with
lev". >> in the beginning, i looked up to him and cared about rudy giuliani. >> i'm with my friends. >> a bromance made in heaven. >> at some point almost overnight, rudy became lev's, i don't know, work wife or something because they spent so much time together. and they had such an intimate relationship. they were almost like father and son. >> four to five days out of the week, five, six times a day, phone calls and text messages, and godfather to my son. >> there's a photo of him wiping his mouth, i don't think he's offered me that service, maybe not our kids. i was like yep, we're not getting him back. >> "from russia with lev," the first documentary from my production company debuting at the msnbc live democracy 2024
event, september 7th, brooklyn, new york, that's the first place to see the film. i'll introduce the 5:00 screening. if you can't make that event, we've added additional screenings in manhattan, miami and los angeles, featuring live q and a with me and the director and producer. lev will be at the miami screening. if you're interested, go online, msnbc.com/lev. knowing that he's getting good nutrition, that's a huge relief for me and my dad. (sings) old bean piglet head yes that is your name. if you saw his piglet head you would say the same. toot toot.
[♪♪] did you know, say there's a detergent that gets your dishes up to 100% clean, even in an older dishwasher? try cascade platinum plus. for sparkling clean dishes even on the toughest jobs. just scrape, load and you're done. switch to cascade platinum plus. hi, i'm ron reagan, an unabashed atheist. and i'm alarmed, as you may be, by the intrusions of religion into our secular government. that's why i'm asking you to join the freedom from religion foundation, the nation's largest and most effective association of atheists and agnostics working to keep state and church separate, just like our founders intended. please join the freedom from religion foundation today. ron reagan, lifelong atheist, not afraid of burning in hell.
>> no application fee if you apply by august 29 at university of maryland global campus, offering online and hybrid courses and lifetime career services. learn about our more than 135 degrees and certificates at umgc.edu. whoa! how'd you get your teeth so white? you gotta use the right toothpaste! dr. c?! ♪♪ not all toothpastes whiten the same. crest 3d white removes 100% more stains for a noticeably whiter smile. new personal best. crest. when you smell the amazing scent of gain flings... time stops. (♪♪) and you realize you're in love... steve?
with a laundry detergent. (♪♪) gain flings. seriously good scent. pete g. writes, “my tween wants a new phone." "how do i not break the bank?" we gotcha, pete. xfinity mobile was designed to save you money and gives you access to wifi speeds up to a gig. so you get high speeds for low prices. better than getting low speeds for high prices. -right, bruce? jealous? yeah, look at that. -honestly. someone get a helmet on this guy. get a free unlimited line for a year when you add one unlimited line. plus, get a new google pixel 9 on us. bring on the good stuff. (♪♪) behind every splenda product is a mission. helping millions of people reduce sugar from their diets. now try a sweetener grown by u.s. farmers. introducing zero-calorie splenda stevia. at splenda stevia farms, our plants are sweetened by sunshine. experience how great splenda stevia can be. grown on our farm,