to the country, it's a disgrace not just to the united states senate, it's a disgrace to the party of ronald reagan who described the united states of america as a shining city on the hill because it was a beacon for people like this biden report from port of newcastle. it's the largest cold port, it's in australia, about 20 billion dollars worth of cold get shipped through that one port every year. that's more than any other place on earth. and yesterday, all operations at the port of newcastle in australia, were brought to a complete halt. because of something that port had never before had to contend
with. it was a young woman named hanna and her friend. >> my name is hannah and i am here, i'm sailed off the world side -- i'm here with my friend diana. and we are stopping this terminal from loading all cold into ships and from all unloading cold into culture in. this is part of the largest cold port, and we are stopping the operations. right now we are -- which is being used to ship off coal that has come from countries from first nations land all across this continent. and it's being sent to be burned overseas as a part of the moneymaking machine. which is perpetually causing climate crisis which is driving us further from the point of good antisocial collapse. >> hannah is 21 years old, her
friend is 28 years old. and yesterday, these two young women apps ailed, repelled off this giant piece of machinery off the port of newcastle. to protest australia's use of cold and distributing cold all over the world. washington post posted this video of them making their case to the world as they waited for the police. saying, this is us responding to the climate crisis. >> this is humans trying to survive, this is humans trying to overcome the system that is killing us, that isn't saving us. and we are trying to induce the social tipping point which will give us a chance at another generation. [laughs] >> what a wild thing to want. >> these two young australians climbed up this giant piece of
machinery at daybreak yesterday. they strung themselves up and hug there in those harnesses for hours. and that did in fact hold the export and the full there in that huge fort. again, the largest court in the world. eventually the two young women were arrested as they knew they would be. and i don't know if it's something in the proverbial water, something just about this time that we are in. part of what is going on in the news right now, which doesn't always gets talked about us something that is propelling the news, but part of really what is going on at the news right now is what feels like just an explosion of peaceful but also dramatic direct action. from all kinds of people. from all kinds of places. and all kinds of issues. people trying to call on peoples conscience is. trying to move leaders and elected officials to do the right thing. this was oklahoma city last night. this group of protesters
stationed themselves outside the governor's mansion in oklahoma city to try and persuade the governor of oklahoma to stop the planned execution of a man in julius jones, their execution was scheduled for 4 pm local time earlier this afternoon. he has been on death row for 19 years for a murder he says he did not commit. there have been questions raised about the fairness of his trial and whether or not he is truly guilty of the crime for which he was sentenced to death. but as is execution days approach, lots of people in oklahoma, of all different strides, mobilized to try and move the governor to please not kill this man. to please call up the education. -- sorry the execution. the pastor one major oklahoma church was arrested last night for refusing to clear the street when police asked him to leave. as they rest in the said, this is what we call civil disobedience. this protest last night was the combination of what had been a very dramatic week in oklahoma
city. high school students all over oklahoma city in other parts of the state have poured out of their classrooms in a surprisingly large and sustained series of high school student lock out, to protest today scheduled execution of julius jones. in oklahoma city today, lots of students left class and marched straight to the capitol. and they held protests, prayers, and vigils, again, outside the governor's office. in the capital rotunda. today, hundreds of people returned to the state capital building as 4 pm inched closer. the governor was running out of time if you want going to commune julius jones's sentence. but as the time clicked down, but just a few hours left on the clock, it worked. it happened. the governor did commute julius jones's sentence sprang him from execution, sprang him from the death chamber. you can listen from the reaction from the people in the capital.
. [applause] >> all those people who have been organizing for days that's them all getting the news. you can sort of see it spread around the room as everybody on their phone starts getting the confirmation and then telling everybody what else the work was. this was shot right outside the capital, you can see the emotion there from the people who are outside the capital building. this was outside the prison where julius jones is incarcerated right after the news broke. hear the crowd or piercing, will going to be all right. [applause]. >> so this was oklahoma this week, this was oklahoma today. a direction of a very different kind but also going the difference. getting to the goal. yesterday, union workers at john deere finally rack defied a new contract. which brings to an end their labor strike. last month, more than 10,000 people who worked at john deere
walked off the line, five, states colorado georgia, illinois, kansas, john deere workers have been in the streets for 35 straight days trying to get better working conditions. as a result of their strike, they won. they want to 10% pay increase that goes into effect immediately. they also get a signing bonus, and better retirement options. that's what they were asking for. here was direct action of yet another kind, and in another place. this is glenn county georgia, outside, where three men were accused of killing a man. a man name ahmaud arbery. four days, now for one of the men's who's accused of killing mr., aubry was attempted to prominent african american pastors removed from the side of the trial. removed from the courtroom. because he says, they were intimidating. he says it's black pastors, specifically, that are intimidating. and he wants the black pastors removed. just the black ones.
and so, today more than 100 black pastors showed up outside of the courthouse to establish themselves there as a peaceful, powerful, prayer for, presidents at the straw. and also specifically to pray for mr. arbery. after a court was adjourned for the day, they marched. this was yesterday, outside the u.s. capital in washington d.c.. this was a group of 50 activists, and at this point in the day, they stood in the circle, they read stories about their loved ones who had died of covid. and these folks were there to urge congress to pass a bill that soon could've been out for consideration. and it's a bill for global access to vaccines and a bill that would help us better prepare for the next pandemic. about a half dozen of those activists, walk to the front steps, one of them had traveled from as far as texas to be there yesterday. and these folks, they held cardboard tombstones, with their loved ones who died of covid. and, then they spread their
loved ones ashes on the steps. you can hear them chanting, bringing the debt to your, door we won't take it anymore. now the global vaccine bill, the pandemic preparedness bill that they want past, it's part of the defense authorization bill which is going to move soon in congress. but, it is an amendment to the defense authorization, there are 700 of those. this is something that has bipartisan support and bipartisan cosponsors ship. but the sponsorships are willing to do this yesterday. and to get a rest for. to try and make the moral case for that legislation just as wrenching and as blunt and clear as they can so that they could try and make sure that it gets done. and i can't explain why we are seeing this in so many places, so potently on so many issues right now. for whatever reason right, not one of the unsung propulsive current in the news right now is this kind of nonviolent
direct action. we are just seeing this kind of thing everywhere. creative, nonviolent, conscious calling direct action. and of course, that kind of direct action does not always work. we are going to be talking a little later on this hour about voting rights. it's a situation involving our d democracy in this country. which is seems all the powerful targeted, non-powerful, direct action that has been directed on that issue is not moving. and specifically is not moving one person. it's not moving democratic senator joe manchin to do what he needs to do to get voting rights legislations passed in the senate. we are going to talk more about that this hour. direct action doesn't always work. but sometimes it feels like it's the only thing that the and i think it deserves a little board recognition of what is driving the moral framing of these issues that is all moving right now in the. news driving some of the moral framing of the narrative around these policy changes, these
changes, these commitments that leaders are being asked to make, and how they understand the stakes about. them i say that because tonight we are seeing the results of, among other things, what has been a long and relentless campaign to direct action from all different kinds of groups and individuals urging congress to pass president biden's agenda, the sunrise movement is a group that you may have heard of. they are national camp cain of young activists pushing for solutions to the climate crisis. ever since biden proposed major climate action as part of his presidential agenda that they have just been docket in the pressure to try and get congress to see it through. that is included, this remarkable thing that have been, over the past few weeks. for 14 days, young activists from the sunrise movement staged a hunger strike. to try and press their holdout senators like, again, joe
manchin. they have to be carted around on wheelchairs, their body were so weak, several of them were hospitalized after not eating anything for two straight weeks. that action by those young kids, was just one part of a larger series of protests that we have seen, not just from climate activists, but from all sorts of different people urging lawmakers to pass the president agenda. specifically to pass this build back better bill. when democratic senator joe manchin is in washington he lives on a yacht, which he likes to call a house vote. you might remember coverage from september, group of activists from his home, they paddled up to senator manchin's yacht in their own kayaks. they called themselves kind activists. they held up silencing things, i support build back better, i don't think our bill. they cause enough of a stair that they eventually got senator to come out to talk to him from the deck of his yacht, and listen to their concerns, and debate his concerns.
you might also remember right around that same, time congress held its annual congressional baseball game. republicans and democrats faced off against each other for seven innings, nationals park. during this year's game activists dropped banners over the bleachers that said stuff, like our lives are not a game. past 3.5 tea, as, in 3.5 trillion dollars. which at that point was the price tag for the build back better bill. they also add another one that cut right to the point, that said, democrats don't f this up. the following month, october, we saw members of the disability right group attack. staging a protest outside the hard senators office building. which is where senator manchin, and kyrsten sinema both have offices. they were arrested that day. but by the next day several of those same disability rights activists were already at another, nonviolent direct action outside of the capital.
which turned out to be a 24-hour visual for 24's straight hours for disability rights activists camped outside the capital. and they talked about why so many lives depend on passing build back better. specifically, the billions of dollars of support in that bill for home and community based care for elderly and disabled people. so, elderly and disabled people who need extra help don't have to be institutionalized, if that is not otherwise in their interest. they can stay, home they could get help at home. there's billions of dollars in support for that in the build back better bill. and i'll tell you, that part of president biden's agenda has not gotten this much agenda some of the other parts but it's a big deal that affects a big number of americans. right, now the number of elderly and disabled americans who are on the waiting list for that kind of care, for home based care services, it's about 800,000 people. on the waitlist. at one point, in the night,
during the 24 hour vigil, they held up this illuminating sign that childcare can't wheat. and that phrase, care can't wait, has been a rallying cry among supporters of president biden's agenda. people trying to get congress to follow through. a few weeks, later another direct action, just this past month, health care activists held a rally outside of the building, urging senators to support some of the health care provisions in build back better, in which there are many. they set up tears outside that building to make it look like they were in a doctors waiting room. remember, care can't wait? they blocked access to that building. they did so peacefully, nonviolently, and they told stories about the ones that they have lost. in the, and there were multiple arrests at that peaceful direct action protests. so we have been watching these passionate dogwood relentless, nonviolent, direct action campaigns over this particular bill for months now.
it really has not let up. just this, week there are protests and marches, and direct actions in washington d.c. urging congress to finally get this bill done. and tonight, we are seeing the results of, among other things, that pressure by all those thousands of americans who participated in those things. here we are now. that is the walk that you want. but here's what you get at the end of. it i mean, what the house is going to pass tonight -- this is hearing aids finally being covered by medicare. finally. a hard cap on what anyone on medicare has to pay out of pocket for their prescription. that seems reasonable, why don't we do that before? also, finally, relief for americans to use insulin. insulin used to be sheep. it was recently not only become not cheap but totally unpredictable on the pricing. some peoples out leg going over $1,000 a month. if you need insolent it's not optional, you need insulin. well, now under this bill, because for anyone who needs
insulin will be kept at $35 a month for your insulin. finally. the first ever federal paid leave program. you have a family member who is sick? an older parent or grandparent to has some sort of medical deficiency, or maybe you have a baby in the new picture? four weeks of paid family and medical leave ever in this country. also, preschool now available for all kids in the country for all three and four-year-old. and win more support for people to get free meals at school. and money to fix stuff out of the school buildings. pell grants to help people pay for college. we are short on health care workers, but now we are going to support the national nurses corp. that should help with recruiting more health care professionals. we need more teachers, right. this funds teacher recruitment in the country. and as i, said people with disability or for older folks who want to stay at home but who need some help, this is the
first time we are going to invest as a country and people's ability to get help at home so that they could stay at home. with a little extra help, without having to go to a nursing home. 800,000 americans on the waiting list for that kind of care. they are finally going to get that kind of care supported by that bill. it is also, as you've heard, the biggest investment and climate resilience that we've ever had as a country. that includes the biggest investment that we've had in weather forecasting. and research, that would be better if that was better. we are also going to make the post office vehicle electric. now you know that mail trucks get ten mile per gallon? why aren't the post offices vehicles electric vehicles? well, this bill will do. that also trash buses, school buses, that should have been done a gazillion years ago. we will finally get to that. now pipes for drinking water that are made of lead -- never was a good idea in the
first place. but here is, finally, billions of dollars to take those lead pipes out and replace them with water pipes that don't poison our kids anymore. finally. also, increasing our vaccine production capacity as a country. that seems like it's one time, right? maybe we are a little overdue on that one. rebuilding and modernizing our ancient an out of date va facilities for our veterans. why has it taken so long for us to do that? so many veteran facilities are 50 and 60 more years old. and that is not even the half a bit. for most of this stuff, how did none of this gets done before. never mind that now. we know. if you watch the people who did everything they could, everything other human power to get it done, it's easy to see that it took moving heaven and earth to get us to the point where we are going to do it now. but tonight, we are doing it. this is passing the house tonight. we have been talking throughout
this whole long and windy road of a process with the chair of the progressive caucus, primala jayapal, who has been ushering me from the one that it will get done. tonight, in the house, it is finally getting done. i've been cynical this whole, time she told me it will pass. right, now it is passing in the house. she is going to join us just off the house floor, just ahead, lots to get to tonight, stay with us. , stay with us. ♪ when you have nausea, ♪ ♪ heartburn, ingestion, upset stomach... ♪ ♪ diarrheaaaa.♪ try pepto bismol with a powerful coating action. for fast and soothing relief. pepto bismol for fast relief when you need it most. >> man: what's my safelite story? my truck...is my livelihood. so when my windshield cracked... the experts at safelite autoglass came right to me... with service i could trust. right, girl? >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪
(naj) at fisher investments, our clients know we have their backs. (other money manager) how do your clients know that? (naj) because as a fiduciary, it's our responsibility to always put clients first. (other money manager) so you do it because you have to? (naj) no, we do it because it's the right thing to do. we help clients enjoy a comfortable retirement. (other money manager) sounds like a big responsibility. (naj) one that we don't take lightly. it's why our fees are structured so we do better when our clients do better. fisher investments is clearly different. trelegy for copd. [coughing] ♪ birds flyin' high, you know how i feel. ♪ ♪ breeze driftin' on by... ♪ if you've been playing down your copd,... ♪ it's a new dawn, it's a new day,... ♪ ...it's time to make a stand. start a new day with trelegy. ♪...and i'm feelin' good. ♪ no once-daily copd medicine... has the power to treat copd in as many ways as trelegy. with three medicines in one inhaler,
trelegy helps people breathe easier and improves lung function. it also helps prevent future flare-ups. trelegy won't replace a rescue inhaler for sudden breathing problems. tell your doctor if you have a heart condition or high blood pressure before taking it. do not take trelegy more than prescribed. trelegy may increase your risk of thrush, pneumonia, and osteoporosis. call your doctor if worsened breathing, chest pain, mouth or tongue swelling, problems urinating, vision changes, or eye pain occur. take a stand and start a new day with trelegy. ask your doctor about once-daily trelegy, and save at trelegy.com. (vo) subaru and our retailers believe in giving back. that's why, in difficult times, we provided one hundred and fifty million meals to feeding america. and now through the subaru share the love event, we're helping even more. by the end of this year, subaru will have donated over two hundred and twenty five million dollars to charity. this is what it means to be more than a car company.
this is what it means to be subaru. small businesses like yours make gift-giving possible. this is what it means to be more than a car company. now, comcast business has an exclusive gift for you. introducing the gift of savings sale. for a limited time, ask how to get a great deal for your business. and get up to a $500 prepaid card with select bundles when you switch to the network that can deliver gig speeds to the most businesses. or get started with internet and voice for $64.99 per month with a 2-year price guarantee. give your business the gift of savings today. >> it will invest in childcare, comcast business. powering possibilities.
universal pre-k, home care -- >> the build back better act makes the largest commitment towards addressing the climate crisis ever considered by any nation in history. >> this build back better legislation will make health care accessible and affordable for 2.2 million low income, uninsured americans. >> tonight, is about history. we are going to change the lives and livelihood about americans for generations to come --
>> as a late night in washington tonight where the house is on the verge of passing the signature piece of president biden's agenda, the build back better act. and getting to this point has been quite a saga. a seemingly endless negotiation over the scope of the bill, the cost of the bill. he did standoffs over the wisdom of splitting the stuff off from the smaller bipartisan physical infrastructure bill that is my smaller bipartisan bills were split off by both of the house in the senate. it was signed into law by president biden this week. got of, course happened only on the condition that there would also be support for this larger spending bill that is going through the house tonight. tonight, it does look like democrats are on the cusp of passing this in the house. that is the first big necessary steps towards sealing the historic legislation advance for president biden, and for the country. it would be protests chilly transformational piece of legislation. i think we wouldn't be where we
are tonight without the work and the advocacy of the congressional progressive caucus. and its leader, washington congresswoman, primala jayapal, from the beginning she has been a vital part of the negotiations. equally cheerful and unrelenting. earlier in the day today, primala jayapal posted this photo of herself with a mascot that looked like it jumped out of schoolhouse rock. you see the caption says, love meeting the build back better bill today. there he is, bill. i would've guessed white pants, but still, hey, it's all right. she says now let's vote this bill through the house and move one step closer towards making this transformational package, law. joining us now, where the house is set to vote for this,bill is congresswoman pramila jayapal, from washington chair of the congress of caucus. congresswoman, it's really nice of you to make a moment here in this busy night to see us, thanks for making time. >> thank yourachel. i told you would get it done, and we are going to get it
done. >> i never count my chickens before they are how -- you see you believe the votes are there for sure. >> yes, it will pass tonight. the house of representatives. andrachel, i am so proud of the progressive movement, the progressive caucus that has been holding the line and saying that these two bills, the infrastructure, bill on the build back better bill had to go together, 85% of all of that good stuff that you covered, that is 85% of the presidents agenda. that is in the build back better act. and it is transformational. and so, when we insisted in six weeks ago,rachelthat there was no negotiations agreement, there was no framework, there was no legislative,techs there was no vote on the rules, and there was certainly no vote on the actual build back better act because progressives have a line that we have all of that. and this is a phenomenal package, we will pass through the house, we will send it to the senate, president biden has
assured us that he has 51 votes in the senate. i have had my own conversations with senators over there, we are going to get this done, and democrats are going to deliver for the people. >> now, when you say you've had your own conversations with senators over there in terms of its likelihood of passing in the senate, i am going to ask you what you mean. and you are not going to tell me directly, but please tell me indirectly what you mean by that. because that is the whole enchilada in terms of whether or not this actually becomes law. >> well, what i will say is that the negotiations were taking place over the last five weeks with senators manchin and sinema and the white house. almost every aspect of this bill has been pre conference. there are a few things that are not,rachel, and we just have to be real about that. we haven't -- we put paid leave done, senator manchin has not agreed to that, yet but i will tell you that there are some phenomenal strong women senators over there that i hope will be able to convince senator manchin
that that is the thing to do. but there is hardly anything else that is not perricone fronts. not already agreed to. so when the president said trust me that i am confident i could get 51 vote, of course it's his word. along with the fact that these negotiations have been going on, we have had conversations, and i believe that we will have 51 votes in the senate. how did that do it for you? >> it was indirect but you had two angles. so thank that is a bank shot. i almost understand, let me ask you more specifically, in terms of the discussions that are pre-conference, and you mentioned pete leave as one of them, are there enough items in that basket, things that basically have been pre-agreed to buy particularly those two senators, are there enough things in that basket that if the senate went south of all of them that this bill might become something that ultimately you and your progressive colleagues will bolt from and decided it wasn't worth passing? >> that is not going to happen.
the framework that president biden laid that was actually the framework that was the pre-come front part, right? in addition to that. since the progressives said that we are going to wait to be able to get a real agreement being able to pass both these bills together, we have added prescription drug pricing, finally. we are going to cut the cost of prescription drugs. we have added a piece around immigration that will depend on the parliamentarian. that has less to do with the senators, and more to do with what the parliamentarian rules. but that is still in our bill. but really, we have been able to add things and keep it to the framework that was originally agreed to, so, i don't believe that we will weaken beyond the framework that the president laid out. plus, of course percussion drug prices which was already agreed to. but there are just one or two things, i think we'll see how that, goes i'm very confident that the senators will do a great job of delivering 51
votes and keeping their side of the bargain as we have done over here. >> let me also just ask, you you have said a number of times that you have been the relentless optimist. we just grabbed you have the official optimist of the rachael muddle shot through this process. and i heard in your voice. now not just optimism, but confidence. but you have also said that knowing that it's going to work out in the end doesn't mean that it's going going to be a rocky road. it's going to be a difficult process. and i know some of that is still head. can i just ask you for an assessment about what the impact of this process has been on you and other progressives? on the progressive caucus? on the way that you decided to approaching this in the first term of joe biden as president? has this been beaten you guys up a little bit? has it exposed risk? hasn't made things more difficult? has it brought the caucus together now that you're actually voting yes on something all of the same time? >> it has really brought the
caucus together. and it's not just progressive,rachel. i will tell you on the floor today and just really taking in all of the people across the caucus, including people out side of the progressive caucus that are thanking us for holding the line. who are thanking us for a tactical decisions. who are saying, we would never be where we are without you doing what you did. and so i feel incredibly good and strong. and i want to, say people should understand, it is not just a few progressives. this was dozens and dozens of people. more than half of the progressive caucus that stuck together, held the line as well as others even outside of that who may not have been quite as vocal. but, this was an incredibly powerful moment because first of all, this is the presidents agenda. we said that from the very beginning. we were not asking for something more in this moment than what president biden was asking for. when he laid out to congress. that is a transformational progressive agenda. and so that is the first thing, the second thing is that
courage begets courage. and i think people have forgotten what it looks like to fight. to fight hard for things that are just easy. the bipartisan bill,rachel, was not easy but it was easier. because it's bipartisan and carved off things that there is a lot of support for for both sides of the aisle. this is something we will do with 51 democratic votes. now i guarantee you, there is going to be a whole bunch of republicans who go home after voting no, but they will take the dough and they will hold it up just like they've been doing with the infrastructure bill. the people that voted no are still bragging about what they did. this is going to benefit people, everywhere across the country. and the thing that is different about this, the infrastructure bill is fantastic, we are touting its benefits, but the thing that's different about this is that you will wake up. anyone who's watching theshow, you will wake up and you will see your cost cut. you will see childcare, finally you have childcare. you will see that you're able
to afford the cost of housing, because there will be more housing. the biggest investment in housing in our country's history. you will know, if you're an young person, if you're going to have a planet. and that we are actually taking action to reduce carbon admission. there are so many things in this bill that are about changing how you feel when you wake up in the morning. and that is what we have to do to reach americans across the country, and say, government has got to back. that is with the build back better act will do. >> washington congresswoman, formula jayapal, the chair of the aggression caucus, in the midst of the final debate on this bill tonight that is due to pass. primala jayapal just told us confidently that is going to pass tonight. the votes are. there congressman i know it's going to be a late night, thank you for taking this moment. >> thank yourachel, don't forget to send me my optimist and chief plaque for therachelmaddowshow. >> i will, it's unfortunately just an frosting on a big cookie, but we will get it through. all right, much more ahead here
tonight, as we wait for this big vote. i should tell, you all the were tended up by therachelmaddowshowour by statute, edible. so, anything that we are sending out would have to be able to eat it and shared. all right, stay with us. y with us. l rings] wonderful! mayonnaise? on fries? a little judgy, don't you think? ♪ that's weird. so weird. ♪ oouf. i'll also be needing, stain remover, club soda and a roll of paper towels. [doorbell rings] lifesaver! you're weird, man. to each his own. omega-3 from fish oil is an important nutrient for heart health. you're weird, man. qunol's ultra purified omega-3, is sourced only from wild caught ocean fish, not farm raised and comes in an easy to swallow mini pill. the brand i trust is qunol.
- if you want a rockstar team like ours, you need grammarly business. (guitar strumming) grammarly business turned my marketing team into rock stars that amplify our bottom line. just ask maya, who started three weeks ago. - [announcer] maya swears by grammarly business, because it keeps her work on brand
and error free, fast, and easy. and we know clear and concise marketing leads to a killer performance. - steady beat to rising revenues, right, maya? (microphone whooshing) - [announcer] learn more at grammarly.com/business. what can i du with less asthma? with dupixent i can du more... right, maya? (microphone whooshing) yardwork... teamwork... long walks.... that's how you du more, with dupixent, which helps prevent asthma attacks. dupixent is not for sudden breathing problems. it's an add-on-treatment for specific types of moderate-to-severe asthma that can improve lung function for better breathing in as little as two weeks. and can reduce, or even eliminate, oral steroids. and here's something important. dupixent can cause serious allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis. get help right away if you have rash, shortness of breath, chest pain, tingling or numbness in your limbs.
tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection, and don't change or stop your asthma treatments, including steroids, without talking to your doctor. are you ready to du more with less asthma? just ask your asthma specialist about dupixent. ♪ i see trees of green ♪ ♪ red roses too ♪ ♪ i see them bloom for me and you ♪ (music) ♪ so i think to myself ♪ ♪ oh what a wonderful world ♪ this is a story.
this is worth getting your head around. first time they tried it was a decade ago, right after the last census of 2010. the republican county commissioners, in galveston county texas, who are all white. they drew up new voting maps and, which you can do after a new census. the maps they drew had a very specific purpose. those new maps split up and diluted the relatively large minority population of galveston county so that, in the new maps, there wouldn't be any districts that had too many minority voters. the new map would result in the only two democratic county
commissioner, in galveston, likely losing their seats, including the only commissioner who was african american. voila. thanks to one you, map the entire county government would, press, don't be run by white republicans. it's a neat trick. the white republican commissioner in galveston did not even bother to tell the black democratic commissioner what they were doing at the time. they just approved the new month as a surprise, to him. look what we did, did we forget to tell you? but the federal government stepped in and stopped. that the justice department said that those new maps were illegal and discriminatory under the voting rights act. the courts agreed, the maps were blocked. again, this all happened right after the 2010 census. but again, in 2013, something else happened in washington. in a ruling authored by chief justice john roberts, the united states supreme court, gutted the voting rights act. and once a supreme court did, that literally, as soon as they did that, galveston county was one of the first places in the county to go try again.
to try and do the things that they had not been allowed to do because under the voting rights act it was too racist to be illegal. after that supreme court case, which gutted the voting rights act in 2013, with the feds no longer a lot to look over the shoulder what they did things like this, the republican commissioner and galveston county texas, went ahead and enacted a big section of the plant that had previously been blocked. they didn't get all the way to where they wanted. they didn't get rid of one of the democrats. but that one black democratic county commissioner was still there. and so now, ten years after their first go at it, now they are finally getting it done. this week, the republicans, the all white republicans on the galveston county commission unveiled new voting maps. maps that break up the one district where black and hispanic voters -- this will almost certainly result in that one black commissioner losing a seat. meaning, that after the next election, which is 45% non
white, the highest levels of local government will be entirely white, and entirely republican for the first time in decades. to vote on these new maps, the republican county commissioners convened a meeting in an annex building surrounded by construction in a tiny meeting room less than half the side of the usual meaning room. there were no microphones, no overflow room for all of the outraged citizens who showed up. nevertheless, those outraged citizens showed up. >> i'm neither democrat nor republican. what i do know, as a woman, born in the south, and raced in the south is that this math, both of them, are races. . i know for. neither are these people. >> what they are doing is destroying -- which is a destruction of the
community. the community in which i. live and i have lived in over 50 years. >> and i want you to know, that all the members of the court, if we are not going to go quietly today. [applause] >> we are going to rage, rage, rage. [applause] >> until justice is done to us. [applause] >> that last speaker at the end there, that is the one democrat that remains on the galveston county commission. he is the one that they might get rid of for that one right republican who may get that seed instead. after he finished, he was the one dissenting vote as those white republican colleague, all seated up, there they all voted
unanimous sicily to vote on the new. map and that will break up his district. make it more white, and more republicans like him, will get more representation in that part of texas. joining us now is ari berman, he is a senior reporter, he has been covering this more aggressively than any other reporter in the country. all right, thank you so much for being here, i appreciate you making the time hirachel, thank you so much for having me. when you wrote about this galveston situation today, it felt both worse than a lot of things i read, and also essentially like a microcosm of what is happening across the country, everywhere republicans are in control. >> is it fair to see that as a microcosm? >> that's absolutely right,rachel. what's happening in galveston is probably the most extreme example of racial gerrymandering we've seen this year. but it is not an aberration. what republicans are doing across the country is that they are doing a turn back the clock,
decades, when it comes to voting rights. efforts to undermine the right to vote and the most intense efforts to reduce fair representation since the voting rights act was passed in 1965, and without these crucial protections, without a strong voting rights act, republicans are basically getting a free pass to do an extreme gerrymandering, of voter suppression, that would have been otherwise blocked under the voting rights act before it was gutted by the supreme court. >> the head of the justice department civil rights division gave a speech tonight in which she talked about the provision still enforcing the voting rights act. she described those provisions against racial vote dilution. it seems like that could apply in texas, in galveston and other areas. is there oh -- through the courts, compared to
win the voting rights act was still in force. is there still potential help coming from the courts? >> there is a remedy,rachel, but it's a harder remedy. previously, galveston would have had to approve this kind of racially discriminatory change with the federal government. and it would have been blocked, which is why they did not propose this kind of thing in the first place. now they can do it. you can only charge it after the fact. so there is going to be litigation filed, not just in galveston but in places like texas and georgia where they are this and acting discriminatory statewide maps. it will take a long time to litigate these cases. meantime, cases will be held under discriminatory and likely legal maps. ari, i think a lot of democrats and a lot of fair minded americans -- i'm glad we play that clip, of that white women speaking at that galveston meeting, saying i am not a democrat or republican, but this seems racist to me, and she went on in her remarks to say, find a little shame over what you are doing.
this is greedy and shameful and disrespectful to people in this community. and her exasperations as somebody who is a nonpartisan observer in that community, it resonated in an interesting way. i think a lot of democrats feel very dispirited by this process. i think a lot of fair minded observers who want small the well run democracies, whether or not they like democrats or republicans as candidates, feel dispirited by this, feel sort of hopeless. you've been reporting on this so aggressively. do you see the arc bending on this in any way? do you see any way to look at this that is potentially hopeful? that is constructive and not just deflating? >> well, we need to see action from the federal government. we are in a moment where there is no substitute for federal action on voting rights. we are in a 1965 moment for democracy. there was no substitute for the voting rights act in 1965. we weren't going to out-organize voter suppression, we weren't going to outlay the
gate voter suppression. congress had to step in. we are in a similar situation today. we are not going to out-organizer out litigate extreme voter suppression. congress has to pass voter legislation. and hopefully all of the voter suppression, all the extreme gerrymandering we are seeing, every single day, is a wake up call for congress to act and that, yes, this economic legislation is important, but nothing is more important than protecting american democracy. >> ari berman, senior reporter at'mother jones', who has been a juggernaut on reporting on democracy and voting rights, and the steering ending gerrymandering program in particular. thanks so much. >> thanks so much racial. >> paul waltman is writing about this at the washington post. his headline on it was almost perfect, he said the redistricting apocalypse is here. republicans campaign more than
a decade in the making, its goal is to not merely give an advantage in close elections. it's to make elections are relevant. so that no matter what voters want, republicans always stay in power. that is the game here. that is why this stupid word gerrymandering, such an impediment about critically thinking about this, that is the game. thinking about this, that isandf our system, in a nonpartisan way, this redistricting thing -- this apocalypse is indeed where it is heading. all right, we will be right back, stay with us. ay with us autoglass came right to me... with service i could trust. right, girl? >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ there's a different way to treat hiv. it's once-monthly injectable cabenuva. cabenuva is the only once-a-month, complete hiv treatment for adults who are undetectable. cabenuva helps keep me undetectable. it's two injections,
given by a healthcare provider once a month. hiv pills aren't on my mind. i love being able to pick up and go. don't receive cabenuva if you're allergic to its ingredients or taking certain medicines, which may interact with cabenuva. serious side effects include allergic reactions post-injection reactions, liver problems,...and depression. if you have a rash and other allergic reaction symptoms, stop cabenuva and get medical help right away. tell your doctor if you have liver problems or mental health concerns, and if you are pregnant, breastfeeding, or considering pregnancy. some of the most common side effects include injection site reactions, fever, and tiredness. if you switch to cabenuva, attend all treatment appointments. with once-a-month cabenuva, i'm good to go. ask your doctor about once-monthly cabenuva.


we were alone when my husband had the heart attack. with once-a-month cabenuva, i'm good to go. he's the most important thing in my life. i'm so lucky to get him back. your heart isn't just yours. protect it with bayer aspirin. be sure to talk to your doctor today's trump how white house before you begin an aspirin regimen. advisor appeared in federal court to face criminal content charges for defying a he pled not guilty today. the judge accepted his plea. the january 6th investigation continues to be the focus of so much of what is going on in terms of congress and its oversight responsibilities.
the other big select committee investigating a massive thing in american public policy is the committee that is looking at the trump administration's disastrous response to covid, which potentially cost hundreds of thousands of american lives. the committee today subpoenaed top trump white house advisor peter navarro, it came after the committee requested documents from him and september. they accompanied the request by releasing emails showing how integral navarro was in the early trump white house response to the pandemic, including taking advice from a fringe outside adviser. they also released emails showing navarro inexplicably pushing the use of hydroxychloroquine, though it is not known to have effect on covid-19. he also told trump to fire doctor fauci twice. he publicly denounced anthony fauci as evil. he wrote an op-ed in july of last year about how terrible and wrong anthony fauci was. the op-ed was published with a
special note at the top by usa today, as it contained too many falsehoods. why did they publish it? peanut of our refused to respond in november. he repeatedly hung up when he was called to follow up on the request. now it's a subpoena, demanding he follow up with documents and follow up with a deposition. the committee is also suggesting in its communications today that navarro may have withheld additional evidence, in part by using encrypted private communications during his time at the white house, which you are not supposed to do and which could be more troublesome for navarro then, so far, his refusal to just supply the committee with documents. we will see. watch this space. watch this space now subaru is the largest automotive donor to make-a-wish and meals on wheels.
and the largest corporate donor to the aspca and national park foundation. get a new subaru during the share the love event and subaru will donate two hundred and fifty dollars to charity. my auntie called me. she said uncle's had a heart attack. i needed him to be here. your heart isn't just yours. protect it with bayer aspirin. be sure to talk to your doctor
- if you want abegin rockstar team like ours, you need grammarly business. (guitar strumming) grammarly business turned my marketing team into rock stars that amplify our bottom line. just ask maya, who started three weeks ago. - [announcer] maya swears by grammarly business, because it keeps her work on brand and error free, fast, and easy. and we know clear and concise marketing leads to a killer performance. - steady beat to rising revenues, right, maya? (microphone whooshing) - [announcer] learn more at grammarly.com/business.
>> man: what's my safelite story? right, maya? my truck...is my livelihood. so when my windshield cracked... the experts at safelite autoglass came right to me... with service i could trust. right, girl? >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ every day in business brings something new. so get the flexibility of the new mobile service designed for your small business. introducing comcast business mobile. you get the most reliable network with nationwide 5g included.
and you can get unlimited data for just $30 per line per month when you get four lines or mix and match data options. available now for comcast business internet customers with no line-activation fees or term contract required. see if you can save by switching today. comcast business. there is no filibuster in the powering possibilities. house of representatives, but the republican leader in the house congressman, kevin mccarthy is right now doing his best impression of.
one he has been talking nonstop for more than an hour on the house floor to try and delay the passage of the build back better legislation. which is far as we can tell, is going to pass. no matter how long he is going to keep up past their bedtimes. i should also tell you that there was one particularly funny moment, at one point in this speech tonight, he shouted in his speech, nobody elected joe biden to be 50 are. at which 0.1 democrat on the floor shuttered out, i did. and then another said, mid to. [laughs] . >> things like this always seem to happen to kevin mccarthy when he thinks he has a singer. anyway, it might be a long night but it looks like it's going to be a good one. our coverage continues now with the last word with lawrence o'donnell. >>rachel, i have a theory about what kevin mccarthy is doing. i think he saw that you, for the first time tonight, exhibited some optimism about this bill