about something you know is near and dear to your heart. the sport of baseball. i'm a cubs fan. we were avidly watching the 2016 series before trump was elected. this year, they have a new rule where they took -- they kept it over from last year, that in the extra inning, you start with a runner on second base, and all the purists hated it, and i have come around and i am prepared to say on thisshow, the heresy, i like the new rule of runner on second base. where do you stand? >> i'm still concerned about the dh, whether the dh is ruining baseball or not. while it's clear the games are too long, i guess i'm indifferent. i continue to hate the yankees, and i am not crest fallen when the mets signed francisco
lindor, that he is not even hitting .200, my heart is in that. and i'm okay with all that. >> the last question. for real this time. there is a senate race coming up in your state, rob portman, your colleague thaw served with for a long time, he is retiring. what do you make of the race that is shaping up and the political context in your state in advance of that? >> well, it's a race we can win. we ran with a sharp dignity and work message. you never compromise of marriage equality or choice or opposition to the nra. you talk about minimal wage and work and the overtime rule and cutting child poverty. there are five republicans in the race, i think, if that count is right.
and they all remind me of kids on a playground sticking their tongue out at each other saying trump loves me more than he loves you. it's something to watch in ohio. the extremism and just getting in line for trump in ways that -- still is astounding in this country, and i watch it up close, and it breaks my heart. and it also means it's real opportunity for us to win. trump carried my state by eight points twice. we can win here and i think our chances in 2022 are good, the governor's race and the senate race. >> senator sherrod brown, thank you so much. that is all in on this thursday night. therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. good evening,rachel. >> good evening, chris. thank you, my friend. much appreciated. i apologize, we have been having studio technical difficulties.
if things seem hinky, it's on me, it's not on you. we will see if we can fix this on the fly. i want to thank you for being with us tonight. this is what some people call thursday. we know it by its true name, friday eve. even if we are having technical difficulties, you cannot take friday eve away from me. we have a bigshow. mark elias here, he is the power house lawyer who won more than 60, 60 different lawsuits against the republicans and the trump company as they tried to use the courts to overturn the outcome of the 2020 election. mark elias will talk about his latest fight which he just joined today. that happening as kamala harris held a round table at the white house, and a voighting rights, and florida governor ron desantis signing the latest law
to role back voting rights in a republican-controlled state. not making it very subtle as to who this is intended to benefit, who it's intended for. he signed the voting rights restriction bill live on tv. at an event hosted by literally a donald trump fan club while he was in an interview for fox and friends. if you're a democratic voter or independent voter, you can be sure your governor is looking out for you, taking care of the whole state and everybody's rights. did i mention he signed a voting bill at a donald trump fan club? subtle. okay. the great state of texas tonight is holding a big vote to move their new draconian bill through the legislature.
it's harder to vote in texas than almost any state in the country. we will get to all that coming up, with mark elias, our first guest this evening. but we will start tonight on a heads up from political politic. it's a small piece on what is happening today. but it's news worthy because it portends something bigger. the personal lawyer to trump, rudy giuliani, appears to be broke. or worried about money for a litany of reasons. you recall that jewel giuliani ice home and office were raided by the fbi last week. and the standard of living to which he has become accustomed. rudy giuliani, the personal lawyer from ex-president donald
trump, has reduced the sides of his personal entourage. he has laid off staffers and contractors. and he no longer moves around manhattan with the full complement of as many as five people he has kempt around him for years. he has a part-time driver, who is the son of one of his friends. now, whether or not it matters to you if rudy giuliani still has his valet, his door opener, i'm not sure what he needs five other people for, whether or not that change in his lifestyle is significant, the news is that mr. giuliani appears to be in money trouble and that may have
implications how he decides to handle his legal jeopardy and how he decides to corporate with those seeking his corporation to earn his lenience. and a former president of the united states is facing inquires in new york state, in georgia, in -- right? if his lawyer is going to face pressure to cooperate in order to get him out of of the legal trouble, and he may not be able to defend himself in the style he is accustomed, that is potentially a big deal. and the reporting this week in "the new york times," that mr. giuliani is seeking help directly from president trump. he wants president trump to join
in a lawsuit with him to sue the government for executing the search warrants. and cnn reporting today that giuliani's own defense lawyer has reached out to lawyers for president trump trying to get them to pay for giuliani's legal costs, this and other matters. when he was asked what the response was to his request, he had no comment. public statements from mr. giuliani's son and some friends have made clear that mr. giuliani expects someone, the republican party, former president trump, one of trump's political slush funds, someone, to please bail out mr. giuliani and at least pay his legal fees. mr. giuliani's son telling cnn he believes the nut will crack some time in the next 36 hours. i don't know exactly what he means by that. if he is suggesting that the
president needs to help out his father financially or something may crack that isn't going to benefit anybody, that is a sort of an ominous portent to what is coming next. i should also note that when mr. giuliani's son made the case that someone should bail out his dad or the nut will crack, the younger giuliani today appears to have confirmed that his father is now facing potential disbarment in new york state. there were reports that he was the subject of disciplinary complaints before the new york bar. we had no sign of the compliants. they are not played out in public in court. but mr. giuliani's son tells cnn that among the things, the legal costs with him, meaning rudy
giuliani, fighting to retain his law license in new york. we know that rudy giuliani is in a legal fight right now to retain his law license. we contacted mr. giuliani's attorney to comment, we will let you know what we hear back. but overall, the picture does at least look expensive. i mean, there is the federal criminal case against mr. giuliani pursued against prosecutors in new york. that led to the search warrants in his office last week. there is apparently, a legal fight to retain his law license in new york. we didn't know that until today. that has to be a priority for him given that is his occupation on the line. and the not small matter of dominion voting systems filing a
$1.3 billion defamation claim against mr. giuliani this year. mr. giuliani has asked the court to have it dismissed. dominion said that giuliani amplifying and promoting and repeating the bizarre conspiracy theories as part of the efforts to overthrow the election results, the company said that affected their business prospects for the future, the value of their business, not to mention what they describe as the hundreds of thousands of dollars the conspiracy theories forced them to spend on security for their employees, naming at least one individual employee of dominion voting and tried to blame the imagined scheme on him. but again, the defamation suit is for more than $1 billion against him personally, for a
man who is already cutting down his entourage to using his friend's son as his part time driver. and roped in the pro trump election fraud fant sips and conspiracies, they are not only looming over mr. giuliani. they led to several use organizations running big awkward apologies and retractions of claims. the most recent, the pro trump outlet news max had to run this apology to dominion and one of dominion's employees. and again, this is not just apologizing for promoting and apologizing to the employee, they are admitting the conspiracies they promoted about
the voting system company and the employees, they admitted they are false and they are retracting them in their entirety. that happened recently with news max. one of the promoters of the dominion conspiracy theory, that is sticking to the claims that they are all true. douglas logan, you will recognize him in a second. douglas logan is the author of this document, titled election fraud facts and details. he said he drafted it for republican u.s. senators who wanted to object to the certification of the results in the electoral college. it appears to be authored by douglas logan, dated january 3th and also january 6th.
the day the capitol was attacked. the document is still live, you can find it posted on the website of another web of the trump lawyers who is being sued. in this case, mr. logan's document is posted on the website of sidney powell, and this document on the website, by douglas logan, it spells out the whole made up fantasy, the core software utilized by dominion, with links to chavez, which, he has been dead since 2013. and none of the allegations are true by the way, dominion is not connected to the other company. none of the companies have anything to do with venezuela, or dead hugo chavez who has been gone for eight years.
dominion has security vulnerabilities that can be exploited by a nation state in n way thags are difficult to detect. how about by a nation, or a state, or a city state, monaco. somebody looking to liechtenstein. check gibraltar. this is my favorite part though. this is a document by douglas logan. still online today. it's billed as the facts and details of election fraud in the 2020 election. among the facts and details in the document, douglas logan produces this evidence that the chinese have been plotting it since 1963 to take over america without firing a shot. this is part of this -- this is part of his election fraud facts
and details. the evidence for the chinese plotting this in 1963 is something from the the john birch society, published on the uhuh website which you can now purchase. it's all here. the facts and details of the fraud of uhuh.com. how they planned their attack on the 2020 election back in 1963. how you going to refute that, you commies? have you checked uhuh.com. and it continues about dominion
voting system and chavez, and blah, blah, blah, and it led to the defamation lawsuits. he goes on to name the specific employee of the dominion voting systems as the real villain saying he was overheard tells his antifa buddies. ask news max, that is one of the fantasies they repeated on air, and they had to retract it and they are very sorry. it's all just nonsense. the venezuela thing is nonsense. the connection of the two voting companies, is nonvens. the hugo chavez, nonsense. the guy from the the dominion conniving to streak the election to take care of trump's hopes. all of this stuff, this is the stuff they have been pushing since the election. it's all nonsense.
if you don't believe that it's nonsense, ask yourself why people who are sued for defamation from the claims are retracting them and apologizing for them and admitting they are false. but former trump's contention that he lost the election is based on this exact craziness, it's based on this exact nonsense. and so far, it has led to multiple lawsuits. but this guy, douglas logan, still to this day promoting this exact junk, he says he absolutely stands by it in. an interview with the arizona mirror, he says he stood behind all the of the assertions, saying, quote, some of it is base on my own research but quite a bit i got from other people but then personally
vetted. he personally vetted all the information about how the chinese planned it in 1963 and the antifa guy and dead hugo chavez guy and the two companies are one company. and he stands by it. he has personally vetted it all. as far as we know, douglas logan has not been hit with one of the billion dollar defamation lawsuits, like rudy giuliani and samuel powell and some of the people who peddled the same stuff. but mr. logan is very busy. and the reason the arizona mirror even thought ask mr. logan if he still stands today by the crazy stuff, is because today what douglas logan is going, he is the man who is running the recount and audit of
the recount in arizona. he is in charge of it. that is who they fired for the recount, and surprise, under his leadership, it's nuts. >> the other day at the press conference, you talked about bamboo. >> there is accusations that 40,000 ballots were flown in, and it came from a southeast part of the world, asia, and what they are doing is to find out if there is bamboo in the paper. that camera right there, they take a picture of the ballot -- >> they are trying to find out if there is bamboo in the paper. yeah, when you put the -- sidney powell, rudy giuliani, and qanon people in charge, in a real american state, this is what you get. this is what the headlines look like in ads ads.
so now it's bamboo in the ballots? are there any limits to the audit lunacy? department of justice asks arizona to respond to concerns. arizona audit ignores federal law. raises concerns, arizona election audits, those who taut voting fraud. the last one, what we learned today. one of the people working on the arizona audit, alongside douglas logan, the conspiracy theory guy, one of the guys that must be kept secret is an arizona woman who has taken it upon herself to prove the election fraud fantasy that trump is still the president by personally collecting allegations of fraud via a website she set up in arizona after the election. her website is
itsmellsfunny.com. so the proprietor of itsmellsfunny.com and communists plotted it out in 1963 guy, in our country, they got control of the physical ballots cast in the election and they are doing lord knows what with them now. it smells funny. president trump has told people he believes this is going to put him back in the white house. not in 2024. now. he believes the arizona audit could undo the election, and he has told multiple people that, and that is nut. and if he believes that, he will promote it to his followers and something that is nuts at the outset will become an article of faith, and he will tell them to
believe and it he will expect them to believe it and to promote it. this week, house republicans are busy replaces liz cheney, the number three republican in house leadership with an election fraud conspiracy theorist. representative stefanik doing an interview with steve bannon, where she went on and on the about how much she sports the very important audit in arizona that will of course reveal the fraud andshowthat trump actually was re-elected. she appears poised to get the house of representatives in the republican party. because liz cheney doesn't believe trump won re-election. she acknowledges trump lost and joe biden is the president and she must be banished and replaced with someone who will advance the conspiracy theory.
that is how it's playing out in washington. but -- it's everywhere. look how it's playing out on the ground in republican politics everywhere right now. this weekend in virginia, republicans will meet to nominate the candidates for statewide offices this year. it's virginia. we have been covering the irony, the sad poetry, that republicans in virginia want to follow the fantasy about massive election fraud and they want to pass laws to make voting more difficult because of the trump election fraud fantasy. but the changes they are insisting on in virginia, they are trying to get past in virginia, have made it so difficult and annoying to vote, that virginia republicans are already exempting themselves from the voter -- from the restrictive voting rules they
want the state to have to follow. they find them to be too much of a pain. way too awkward and difficult and they are not holding themselves to the rule. but those rules should be in effect in the state of virginia. beyond that, one of the candidates who is in the running to become the nominee in virginia is a candidate, an are the state senator who calls herself trump in heels, which is how she is campaigning, and in advance of this weekend's vote, she has sent out a fund-raising email. and it says, do not trust the party to deliver accurate results. who should you go to the results? me, me and my campaign. think about that for a second. this is the republican party holding its own election.
but the message from the trumpiest candidates, is do not trust the results of the election. just come to me. i will tell you whether i won or not and i'm the only one you can trust. it is, as ever, republicans using claims of voter fraud to get an advantage over democrats. it's something i have been reporting on every year for my career in the news. this is part of what we're seeing. but we are also seeing something new. i have never reported on before. and i don't think any of us have ever lived through. at least not in this country. and that is what is new about the republican party and its politics right now. it's not just don't trust the other side. what they are saying now, don't trust voting.
voting itself, elections themselves. even when conducted by and for republicans, voting itself, elections themselves are untrust worthy and we should not look to them to decide political outcomes. just look to me and i will tell you if i won and that's the only thing should you trust. that is the republican party's message to america in 2021. that is the message from the 2020 presidential election, and that is what trumpy candidates are telling voters. go ahead and feel free to vote but the result will be declared my me, and i am the only one you should listen to about that. that is not running against the democrats. it's running against democracy, and the fantasy of election fraud in the 2020 presidential
election is what is driving all that, and it has absolutely paved the road we are now on to what is now a voting rights emergency in states across the country. tonight in texas, they are moving their draconian bill. and they did sign a bill, more than what they passed in georgia. it limits voter registration, drop boxes, voting in person. and in is all about the integrity of the vote, improving florida elections, when it came tooif for governor ron desantis to actually sign it, he literally went to an event called club 45 usa, a president trump fan club. he went to a president trump fan club event. he excluded local press from the
signing and he signed it live on tv in the middle of an interview on fox and friends. the way you do it if you want to assure everyone about the democratic intentions behind what you are doing, right? have the votes in a presidential election recounted from the lady from itsmellsfunny.com, and huga chavez and the chinese planned it in 1963. and the car crash lawyers that had theories when you lost them all, and expect, demand and get your party to purge anyone who refuses to go along with the scam. seems legit, right in the seems like a party that is ready to govern? ready for their shot? mark elias joins us live here next. e next
♪ when i was young ♪ no-no-no-no-no please please no. ♪ i never needed anyone. ♪ front desk. yes, hello... i'm so... please hold. ♪ those days are done. ♪ i got you. ♪ all by yourself. ♪ go with us and find millions of flexible options. all in our app. expedia. it matters who you travel with. ♪♪ (phone rings) hello? hi mommy, i won a medal.
that's amazing! ♪ going back to the place we love ♪ i got in! ♪ with endless summer nights ♪ he's walking! ♪ comes alive ♪ ♪ i don't need the rain ♪ ♪ when the sky is blue ♪ celebrate all the moms in your life with sparkling gifts from pandora jewelry. with sparkling gifts scotts turf builder triple action kills weeds, prevents crab grass and feeds your lawn. all three,in just one bag. i like that. scotts turf builder triple action. it's lawn season. let's get to the yard. we've got 'em on the ropes. the billionaires buying elections. the corporate special interests poisoning campaigns with dark money, frantic to preserve big-money politics as usual. because the for the people act is on the verge of becoming law. reining in corporate lobbyists, finally banning dark money, and protecting our freedom to vote.
billionaires and special interests, your day is nearly done. because it's time for the people to win. oh when june-- your hit that guy! done. yes! wait i don't remember that! it's in season 4 - don't tell me you haven't seen it! i watched season 3. you won't stay caught up for long unless you keep watching the best shows from hulu, peacock, starz, showtime, and hbo max, all year long. just say "watchathon" into your voice remote to add a channel or streaming service and stay caught up.
when republicans in iowa passed a law ruling rolling back voting rights, mark elias filed a lawsuit to try to stop them from doing that. when republicans in georgia fassed a law rolling back voting rights, mark elias filed a lawsuit. when republicans in montana passed a law, you guessed it,
mark elias filed a lawsuit to stop them from doing that in montana. today, republican governor in florida signed a law in sta state, and mark elias has filed a lawsuit to try to stop them in florida as well. joining us now is mark elias. you're a busy man. nice to see you. i wish you can stop being. because republican-controlled states are rolling back voting rights. >> it's great to be here. but it's really terrible for democracy what we're seeing. state after state, republican legislatures are tripping over themselves to see who can pass the most outrageous law in furtherance of sucking up to donald trump with a big lie. >> mark, are we seeing essentially a flock of the same type of laws? i know they differ a little bit
in states and i have been following new democracy dockets and see how they are approaching in slightly different ways. but they have sort of the same skeleton in what they are trying to introduce in the states? >> yeah, very much so. number one, they are making it harder for people to vote absentee reducing drop box opportunities and in general, making the application process for getting absentee voters harder. second, they will do things that will increase lines on election day for in-person voting and having done that, they are making the inperson voting processing as unpleasant as possible, preventing food and water for people waiting in line. >> are they all similarities because they are coming from the same place? we saw the republican national
committee form an election integrity committee. we have seen lobbying groups promote them in bunches. is there a nest where all the things are coming? >> it's a good question. it's a question i get a lot, and the republicans don't reel me in on their efforts to block voting. but it does seem like there is something of a concerted effort on the other side. you know, remember,rachel, in 2013, the legislature in north carolina passed a monstrous anti-voting law that was struck down for targeting african-americans. the legislature looked at provisions and looked at the ones that could have the greatest impact on black voters. there is no reason to think that the republican party of 2021 is
any more gentile. and there is a strategy. but i suspect it's targeting black, brown and young voters. >> in texas, where they tonight are moving to try to pass one of the most draconian bills that any state is pursuing, i feel i have two contrary impulses to understand it. texas is a growing state and diverse state. the republicans have reason to worry about a diverse electorate and whether they will continue to vote republicans, and they want to make it harter so diverse voters don't vote as much. the other thing, republicans have been able to keep texas a very red state. and it's already so difficult to vote in texas. are they importantly approaching a place where they make it hard for their own voters, making it
inconvenient to cast some of their ballots. we saw it in florida with florida republicans cracking down on how the voters most likely vote? >> you made a point about what we are seeing in virginia with the republican party. the two impulses going on. the one is making voter harder for everyone, but making it especially harder for black voters, brown voters and young voters. that is one piece of it, driving the efforts to fight the demographic changes. and the second in virginia, they are just tripping over themselves tournd mine confidence in free and fair elections generally. so their effort to under mine voting as a vote and to make voter harder becomes a bizarre signalling device to their base that voting is not to be
trusted. i think it's both inpulses but the net effect is the same. it's to make voting harder on people but it's going to target young voters and minority voters the hardest. >> mark elias, democratic voting rights attorney, and one of the busiest men in politics, mark, thank you so much for helping us understand tonight. >> thank you for having me. >> all right, we have much more ahead here tonight, stay with us. d here tonight, stay with us l chimes] cheers. i win again, patrick. that's siiir patrick. oooooow. sir. - oh. - what's going on? - oh, darn! - let me help. here we go. lift and push and push! there... it's up there. oh, boy. hey joshie... wrinkles send the wrong message.
help prevent them before they start with downy wrinkleguard. hey! bud. hey, pop pop! so you won't get caught with wrinkles again. [woman laughs] immigrants have done so much for america during this pandemic and throughout our history. we've delivered food to table, cared for the sick, and been on the front lines. america is our home. it's time to keep america's promise. congress needs to pass legislation this year to finally secure protection for dreamers, immigrants who are here on temporary protective status, as well as a pathway to citizen for farm workers that put food on our tables. congress should act now! advil dual action fights pain 2 ways. it's the first and only fda approved combination of advil plus acetaminophen. advil targets pain. acetaminophen blocks it. advil dual action. fast pain relief that lasts 8 hours.

♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ hey google, turn up the heat. ♪ ♪ ♪ when that car hit my motorcycle, insurance wasn't fair. so i called the barnes firm, it was the best call i could've made. call the barnes firm now, and find out what your case could be worth. ♪ call one eight hundred, eight million
and i d d so my y quesonons coueouout hicacase.y y son, ♪ call one eight hundred, cacalledhehe bars s filion and i d d soit was the best call coueouout hii could've made. call the barnes firm aand find out what your case all ccould be worth.uld've made. ♪ call one eight hundred, eight million ♪   it's true that sometimes politics can be complicated. sometimes, but not always. sometimes a political moment can be fully captured in one short headline. like this one. republicans promote pandemic relief they voted against. live that ap headline writer an award for clarity and brevity.
republicans promote pandemic relief they voted against. every single republican voted against the covid relief bill. kevin mccarthy said it was socialism and would turn it into in venezuela. but kevin mccarthy, are busy telling the people all the great stuff that is happening, and the federal money that is floating in the district to do good stuff. this vich. nicole malliotakis celebrating more than $3.7 million in his district, even though she voted against the bill to do that. and madison cawthorn, proud of the taxpayer, alex mooney is
glad for the tens of millions for his district. even though he voted against it. they are taking credit for all the good the bill will do. that is what is happening with the legislation that biden and the democrats have passed. in terms of what they are gearing up to pass, a new poll shows the american families plan they are going to try to pass is already supported by nearly 60% of americans. and the same poll finds that bidenes infrastructure plan gets 60% support, but the support goes up when the $2 trillion price tag is announced. and how much it costs is having the opposite affect. the attacks make people like it more. if you're a democrat, it has to be encouraging.
if you're the biden administration, this has to encourage to you go for it. after all, the last time the democrats did something on their own with zero republican votes, the country loved it. really popular. a super positive impact so far. it's so well liked and at least apparently effective, that the republicans who voted against it are trying to claim credit for having somehow made it happen even though it happened despite their opposition. that should encourage democrats to keep going. right? the other thing is the popularity of the new proposals they are after, which are in some cases more popular than the very popular covid relief bill and get more popular when you tell the public that they're big pieces of legislation that have big price tags. the main republican attack, makes the public like them more. but if that is not enough to
encourage, you can be further and ultimately encouraged by republican senator mitch mcconnell who is now telling democrats that they can stop worrying that republicans are not going to sign on the legislation. that is not a critique of the legislation. he is saying no matter what is in the legislation, he is saying the republicans will guarantee they will not provide the vote. he says 100% of his focus is blocking what biden is doing. if you are a democrat and you wonder why they are not signing on, you like things that are bipartisan, you have permission not worry about that anymore. but republicans have said overtly the only reason they are not signing on to anything is because they are not signing on to anything, no matter what it is. so democrats can feel free to
move ahead alone without republicans. which means negotiations have to happen in the democratic caucus. it will have to be democrats talking to democrats. republicans are not part of the equation. they have taken themselves off the table. they will vote no, no matter what it is. so you don't have to talk to them about anything. it means intraparty conversations in democrats are the most important things. and the most powerful players among democrats joins us next. ♪ (ac/dc: back in black) ♪ ♪ ♪
the bowls are back. applebee's irresist-a-bowls all just $8.99.


100% of my focus is on stopping this new administration. >> 100% of our focus is on stopping this new administration. ah, public service. good to know.
that was yesterday from the top republican in the senate, mitch mcconnell. in kentucky he tried to dial that back. >> well, i'm anxious to stop the biden agenda, depending on what it is. >> oh, depending on what it is, oh, oh. no. i got it. sure, there will definitely be stuff you support him on, right? joining us now is the chair of the progressive caucus, congresswoman pramila. >> great to see you. >> one of the reasons i wanted to talk to you tonight, you are now more center stage than before mitch mcconnell admitted this out loud. if the republicans are overtly taking themselves out of any discussion of legislation, saying their only interest in stopping things the biden administration wants, then there is no point in democrats trying to constructively work with republicans to make stuff happen. they're not going to vote yes no
matter what. that it seems to me that that puts you and the other sort of groups within the dramatic caucus that really know who you are and can speak on your own terms in the cat bird seat in terms of negotiating legislation now among democrats. >> well, that's absolutely right. and, you know, this is who mitch mcconnell was during the obama years. it's who mitch mcconnell is today. and it's who mitch mcconnell will probably be in the next term. all he cares about is stopping legislation. he is trying to back off, but i honestly didn't know how to react with that last quote of his, because we're going to stop the legislation depending on what it is? well, are you stopping it 100% focus or not? the reality is mitch mcconnell has no interest in doing anything for the people. the last time i was on yourshow,rachel, we talked about how one of the things we have going for us right now is that people across america want us to deliver results. and that's democrats, republicans, and independents.
that's why you saw the rescue plan with so much support. that's why the survival checks were so important to include in the last package. that's why support for the minimum wage is so high. because the people are with us. they know they need this relief. and so that puts us in a very unique place with an enormous amount of responsibility to really deliver. without the talk of, well, we need this to be bipartisan. mitch mcconnell has told us he doesn't want it to be bipartisan. so now we can get to work on crafting a big, bold relief package that really addresses infrastructure, the care economy, that lowers the medicare eligibility age to 60 and expands medicare benefits, that addresses environmental justice. all of these are big priorities, and we see it reflected in the popularity of the jobs plan and the families plan.
>> washington congresswoman pramila jayapal of the progressive caucus. thank you for being with us. i feel like you're sort of going to be the key member of congress to watch here as the beltway adjusts to this new reality where democrats are going to decide the size of these packages and their priorities. thanks for helping us understand tonight. i appreciate you being here. >> thank you,rachel. >> we'll be right back. stay with us. us ♪ it's grilled cheese time. ♪ ♪ yeah, it's time for grilled cheese. ♪ ♪ after we make grilled cheese, ♪ ♪ then we're eating grilled cheese. ♪
♪ because it's time. ♪ ♪ yeah. ♪ ♪ time for grilled cheese. ♪ stay restless with the icon that does the same. the rx, crafted by lexus. get 0.9% apr financing on the 2021 rx 350. experience amazing, at your lexus dealer. ♪♪ (phone rings) hello? hi mommy, i won a medal. that's amazing! ♪ going back to the place we love ♪ i got in! ♪ with endless summer nights ♪ he's walking! ♪ comes alive ♪ ♪ i don't need the rain ♪ ♪ when the sky is blue ♪ celebrate all the moms in your life with sparkling gifts from pandora jewelry.
this is our block. with sparkling gifts our place. our people. watch the curb. not having a ride to get the vaccine. can't be the reason you don't get it. you wanna help? donate a ride today. ♪ when i was young ♪ no-no-no-no-no please please no. ♪ i never needed anyone. ♪ front desk. yes, hello... i'm so... please hold. ♪ those days are done. ♪ i got you. ♪ all by yourself. ♪ go with us and find millions of flexible options. all in our app. expedia. it matters who you travel with. ♪ ♪ look, if your wireless carrier was a guy you'd leave him tomorrow. not very flexible. not great at saving.
you deserve better... xfinity mobile. now they have unlimited for just $30 a month... $30. and they're number one in customer satisfaction. his number... delete it. i'm deleting it. so, break free from the big three. xfinity internet customers, take the savings challenge at xfinitymobile.com/mysavings. or visit and xfinity store to learn how our switch squad makes it easy to switch and save hundreds.   before we go, some
late-breaking news tonight that i don't think anybody saw coming. the atlanta journal constitution reporting tonight that the mayor of atlanta, keisha lance bottoms will not run for reelection. we don't know the reasoning behind this decision, but mayor bottoms had announced before tonight that she was going to seek reelection. she'd even held a big fundraising event for her reelection campaign with president biden just a few weeksing ago. she is widely seen as a rising star in the democratic party. she was reportedly under consideration to potentially be president biden's running mate. she was reportedly offered a cabinet position in the biden administration that she turned down so she could stay on as atlanta's mayor and run for reelection. but tonight, again, a serious shock. the atlanta journal constitution reporting that mayor keisha lance bottoms will not seek a second term as mayor. we don't know why. we expect to learn more tomorrow when she gives a news conference at 10:00 a.m. i will definitely be watching. that's going to do it for us
to