wednesday night. our thanks for being with us. on behalf of all our colleagues at nbc news, good night. quick personal matter here. before we go on to the news. if you indulge me for just a second. a couple of months ago, susan and i went to a minor league baseball game. i sat on the aisle, she set to my left. our team won. it was a fantastic game. i bought all the swag, i ate all the hot dogs. it was a great time. minor league baseball i am convinced, is god's gift to americans spectator sports. and our local minor league baseball park, bucks seats, like the really good seats, are six bucks. the parking is free. the food is great. the players are really good
actually, but nobody really cares who wins. sometimes after the game, there's fireworks. literally it's a perfect way to spend a summer night, even if you don't particularly like baseball. i cannot recommend it highly enough. but at this particular minding the game with i went to his season. i monterrey she's on my left. i caught her sort of looking at me at one point just kind of, giving me a screened ei. and i was like what. what is wrong? i'm thinking mustard from the hotdog or something. but she poked me in the neck. kind of hard. poked me in the neck and she said, that mole has changed. it's like she was speaking greet. i had no idea what she was talking about. we're at a baseball game. again this is like a hotdog moment for me. i also did not know what she meant specifically about that moral. because where she was poking me in the neck is not even a spa i had i had a mall, it's on the other side of my jawline, i can see in the mirror. she was quite determined about. it i said, you just never sit
on my left. kazan the one that drives. when it's the two of us in the car. you're used to sitting on my right. i'm sure it's a mosquito bite or sunburn or something. she said know that mola's change. we've been together 22 years, that mueller's. changed i know. she said ask diane. diane is a very old friend of mine. she's been cutting my hair for like 20 years. and i was planning to see diane the next day. i go to see diane the next day, to cut my hair, and i said diane susan said she's thinks this mueller here is changed. and i should ask you if you think so too. and she said immediately, yes. i was gonna say something about it myself. that mueller's changed. i was going to tell you. long story short. susan was right, diane was right. i went to the dermatologist, she said hey that dermot that mole's changed. i've heard that. did a biopsy, turns out it was skin cancer. skin cancer accounts for the vast majority of cancers diagnosed in the united states. and the vast majority of skin cancers are, removable. treatable. here's the thing i'm going to
tell you. even the deadliest kinds of skin cancer now, the ones that are, that like to spread to other parts of your body, the ones that really like to try to kill you. even the skin cancers that are the deadliest in cancers in this country, those two, are way more treatable than they used to be. on one condition. that you get them early. even the most worrying forms of skin cancer. if you identify early enough, it is now quite treatable. advances in the last few years have been leaps and bounds. skin cancer, like i said, there's a lot of different kinds of skin cancer. even the worst ones are eminently more treatable than they used to be. and if you get them early, they are almost all completely treatable. all this to say, i would like into to my band-aid. band-aid,rachelmaddowshowviewers,rachelmaddowshowviewers, my band-aid. i had a few days off because i had surgery, on friday. they're fantastic.
they got, it they got all of it. i'm good. i have clear margins in the whole thing. i now need to have everything checked, like every five minutes from if you're on. out because i do not want to get this again. i do not want to get it anywhere else, i do not one another one of these. but susan was right. like she always is. i am going to be absolutely fine. i'm going to be totally fine, but that is why i have a band-aid. i actually have felt fine since i got the surgery on friday. terms of how i fell in pain levels and stuff, i could've come back right away. it could've been on the air friday night. i didn't do that because i didn't want to wear due out because of the visual of me having the band-aid. finally though, after these three days, off i asked to come back. even though i still have it covered. and that's because a i really am fine. in b, i realized, by writes, i need to pay this back. and i want to use this moment, to tell you something. which is, you should get checked. if you've got moles like i do, just get on a schedule with your doctor. schedule a check now with your doctor. and then when your doctor tells
you you're fine, but you should do this every year. put it in the calendar in your phone for a year from now, and then actually come back and actually do the follow-up appointment. you know what i'm talking about right. you know there's all this stuff you're supposed to have regularly checks and you do it once he never do it again, because they told you you're fine. that's this guy right here. it's only by the grace of susan that i found mine in enough time, that it was totally treatable. because i have been blowing off my appointments forever to get stuff like that checked, because i assumed it will always be fine. well, in this case, it was susan who checked it for me. and then god. not everybody has a susan, i recognize. he didn't get the stuff checked of the doctor, do not blow it off. honestly it is the easiest doctor's appointment in the world. of all the things you go to the doctor for. when you go in for a check to give skin cancer, they just look you over and go as, still have moles. let me measures. delays the same as last. time yet. they don't even do anything that hurts.
when they check you over. is the doctor's appointment and getting -- you pull, in nothing's wrong, delays turn on yes? honk the horn, start it up. it's as doctors appointments, go it's easy. and whether or not you've got moles, if you've got any new skin thing. that you did not have before, yes probably are just getting old i'm sorry. but, get it checks by a doctor. again, lots of americans get skin cancer. the deadliest forms of skin cancer, would love to try to kill you, if you do not catch them and they get to run wild. but if you get even those worst kinds of skin cancer early, which is the easiest thing in the world as far as doctors visits go, if you get it early, you can murder it instead of it murdering you. the treatment really is excellent now. it's much more advanced. much more successful than it used to be. even for the bad kind. so. again, point of personal privilege i hope you don't mind. the band-aid will not last for long. my surgeon told me eventually it might look like a facelift
sky when it's done. so i'm definitely gonna make a fake facelift face all the time, when the time comes. to remove the band-aid. like the national enquirer will do an expos say about how i secretly got a facebook, but isn't it weird cause your face actually looks the same. anyway, that's it. that's my psa for tonight. get your skin checked if you have moles, or anything that you seems new are changing in your skin, it is easy. it very well might save your life. you have many beautiful summer nights of minor league baseball with your friends and loved ones, in your future. you do not want to cut the short. and now you just have to not mind the band-aid for a while. on me, while this gets better. actually, i don't even care if you do mind the band-aid. i am delighted about this band-aid. this band-aids in my life. i have never been happier about a band-aid in my entire life. get checked. call your doctor. just do it. there's really no reason not to. and i'm living proof that you really have to do. okay? okay. now let's get on with it. in the couple of minutes before
we got on the, air we got a little bit of breaking news tonight out of the state of texas. and this is something that we have been waiting for, and wondering if it was going to happen. tonight, it has just happened. we have just learned that a federal judge in texas, has blocked the texas abortion ban. this is the texas abortion ban that bans abortions in that state after six weeks. that's way before most women even know they are pregnant. the texas abortion ban, effectively renders protections afforded by roe v. wade obsolete. the united states supreme court allow that law to go into effect. after texas governor greg abbott signed into law, and the supreme court allowed to go into effect. the u.s. justice department sued the state of texas. they asked for an emergency motion to stop the implementation of the law tonight. a federal judge in texas has blocked the ban. and has granted the justice department's request for a pulmonary injunction. saying in part quote, from the
moment s.b. 8 went into effect, women have been unlawfully protect -- control of their lives in ways that are protected by the constitution. that other courts may find a way to avoid this conclusion, is there is to decide. this court will not sanction one more day, of this offensive deprivation of such an important right. again, that has just happened in the last couple of minutes. again, lots of different entities brought lawsuits against texas. when they first implemented, when they first passed this six-week abortion ban. it was a landmark moments, in the long-standing conservative and republican attack on abortion rights in this country. when the conservative majority supreme court allowed the texas banned to go into effect. the justice department's lawsuit, is what's now brought about an injunction against that texas abortion ban. this of course is all being sort of stacked up on the table ahead of the supreme court. that same supreme court taking
on mississippi abortion law, in this year's term. that is explicitly and overtly defined, designed, to have roe v. wade overturn nationwide for everybody. this injunction tonight is a really big deal. it's a big deal for texas. it's a big deal for abortion rights in this country. it's a landmark ruling. it's just happened. we'll have more on this breaking news coming up later on this hour. as i mentioned, we have bernie sanders standing by for us tonight as well. uncouple hill right now, you probably know, there are these two simultaneous sort of shutdowns that are happening at the same. time for us there's the question of whether republicans are going to allow the united states to pay its bills when they come do, in less than two weeks. this is money congress is already spent. trillions of it, racked up by congressional republicans, during the trump administration. when they gave that huge super expensive tax cut, to the wealthiest americans and corporations in the country. but, now congress has to pass a bill to cover that. to pay for that. senate republicans are not just
refusing to vote for, and they're actively blocking democrats. by filibustering. the united states is never defaulted on its debt. if the u.s. does default honored to, if the republicans do not allow a vote on this by october 18th. the economic consequences could be massive. and global. the u.s. treasury secretary now says it alone just hitting that debt ceiling, with through the country into a whole new recession, just on those grounds around. just for that debt ceiling issue. today democratic senate leader chuck schumer scheduled a vote to try to pay those bills to, raise the debt ceiling. he essentially dared the republicans to block that vote. i mean, the stakes cannot be higher. the country's 12 days away from defaulting on its debt and causing global economic calamity, are you really going to vote to let that happen? up against those stakes today, in the end, the republicans didn't blink. the very last minute, just before the vote was scheduled to start this afternoon, the senate went into an unexpected recess. and i'm telling you, this is
what counts for a nail-biting drama in the united states senate, unexpected recess, do do do. republican leader mitch mcconnell then put forward a surprise offer. and it is not much of an offer. it is still republican leader mitch mcconnell, threatening the full faith and credit of the united states in order to try to extort stuff from the democrats. but what is sort of amazing about this offer is, what it reveals about what mitch mcconnell wants. he only wants one thing apparently, but he's willing to put the nations fiscal stability at risk in order to get it. he's willing to put the united states into an economic recession in order to get this thing that he wants so bad. that would so valuable to him. the country gets, it unless he gets this one thing, what's it that he wants? he wants democrats to put a specific number, on the debt, that they are voting to cover. instead of passing a bill that says we will cover the nation's bills, up to such and such a
date, mcconnell wants them to say they will cover the nations, bills up to such and such a number. meaning x number of dollars. okay, why does he want that? presumably because then republicans will put that number in all their 22, 2022 election political ads, democrats voted to spend this large number. look at how large the numbers. sure,. even though all the democrats really doing our voting to pay the credit card bill for that spending that is already been incurred. republicans nevertheless, want them to name the number, that's all i want. a tv ad talking point for next year's election. or the country gets. in a row put the country in a recession deliberately. right, now senate democrats are meeting to decide if they're going to accept this offer. don't give into this very weird extortion plot. so we're watching that unfold right now. that sort of showdown one that's happening right now as we speak. we are expecting some kind of decision or a counter offer
from the democrats. perhaps later tonight, maybe tomorrow. again that's one. the other showdown right now, it doesn't really involve the republicans anymore, it is happening entirely within the democratic party, and this is over whether democrats are going to be able to pass their own agenda. president biden's agenda, the legislation with all the presents priorities and, from childcare to community college, to health care, to climate initiatives. the agenda the president biden campaign, don and one on. they've been agenda that democrats campaigned on in one. on something like 96% of democrats in congress are on board with passing this. they can do it without any republican votes, but they need all the democrats to vote for. and there are these couple of democratic holdouts. democratic senator joe manchin of west virginia, and kristen sinema of arizona. we have this evenly divided senate, 50 democrats 50 republicans, every single democrat has to be on board in order to pass the presidents agenda. over the last several weeks,
we've had all this reporting that president biden is negotiating with these two attention starved senators, constantly, the president personally talking ruling them for hours. he's actually said he's spoken to each of them for tens of hours. and, in recent days, president biden has told the progressive caucus, the liberal lawmakers, who have pushed hardest to get his full agenda passed. still them basically look, we're going to have to scale down our plan. in order to get our votes to these two senators. the progressive lawmakers basically said, we don't want to do that. but if that's what it takes to get this legislation passed, fine. let's figure out what's to cut out of it. fiand that is where they run ino the problem because these two senators, manchin, and sinema. they won't say what it is they want. they won't say what they want to cut from the plane. they will say they want to plan to be smaller, they will say they wanted to cost less even
though legislation includes ways to pay everything in it. but still they won't say which of all the very popular composed in the plan they want to get rid of. in fact mostly they've sunday praises of most things in the plan. but then they say the plan wants to be smaller. would you want to cut out? they won't say. joe manchin just keeps them talking about he doesn't want to create an entitlement society. i just don't want our society to move in entitlement society. i don't think anybody is quite sure what that means. unless it means manchin has been stuck in some sad waiting room in the eighties except some conservative radio -- right wing think tanks. but i will tell you for all of our frustrations as people covering the stuff, just americans watching them trying to get this thing passed and seeing what the hang-up is with these two senators. democrats in congress through all this time have been very reluctant to criticize each other as this frustrating process has unfolded. you know strategically, as a
matter of human behavior i get it. when you're in the middle of fraught negotiations, you don't want to unnecessarily insult anybody. you don't want anybody's hackles to come up unnecessarily. you want to keep everybody is happy as they can be. pretty much anytime anyone in the press has asked democratic lawmaker about manchin or kyrsten sinema the other democrat will just say oh my good friend. we're all negotiating in good faith, we don't question each other's motives, we come from different places, it's all very cordial i'm confident we will get somewhere in the end. that's what it's been four weeks. not today. the fact that it has been softly softly, don't say anything bad about anybody, don't directly criticize anybody in the process, don't get anybody upset. it has been that way for weeks. today was the end of that. but may today so surprising, and so dramatic was senator bernie sanders -- . who today without much preamble,
without much notice, he gathered the press to the podium and honestly just sounded like he had had enough. >> thanks very much on a busy day for being here. i just want to say few words about some of what's going on. the chairman of the senate budget committee. i want to say a few words about the three and a half trillion dollar reconciliation bill that a number of us are fighting for. and i would also like to make some brief comments about what's senator manchin said earlier today. senator manchin as i understand we talked about today about not wanting to see our country become an entitlement society. while i am not exactly sure why he means by that senator manchin has been extremely critical of the three and a half trillion dollar proposal that many of us support. in fact nine out of 11 members of the budget committee support. but the time is long overdue for him to tell us with
specificity, not generalities, we are beyond generalities, what's specificity he wants, and what he does not want. and to explain that to the people of west virginia, and america. >> senator you've got there, i feel for weeks you have not wanted to take questions about other senators objections to this bill. especially manchin, is it now upon him to come out and say this is what i'm. for this is how i get? >> that's exactly what i'm saying. look, it's very easy to use a vague phrase olive g. my concern with mr. manchin is not so much weight is fuel. it is wrong it is not playing fair, that one or two people think that they should be able to stop, 48 members of the democratic caucus, what the american people want, what the president of american citizens wants. so senator manchin has a right to fight for --
he has a right to get some compromises. he is a member of the senate. but two people do not have the right to sabotage what 48 once, and what the president of the united states. once that to me is wrong. >> when you listed off the measures that are popular, do you see to think manchin is opposed to. is that your understanding that senator manchin is calling for significant cuts to be pulled out of this. >> no it's a great question. ask him. that's exactly my point we need some specific city here. it's not good enough to be vague. you want to cut child care? how much do you want to cut child care? you want to cut climate. how much do you want to do that? tell us with them specifically what you want. >> that's exactly my point. we need some specificity here. it is not good enough to be clear, tell us with some specificity what you want. senator bernie sanders there, appearing to be frankly at the
end of his tether, fed up. everybody watching this process has known that senator kyrsten sinema and manchin are the reason that the presidents agenda, the reason that president biden's legislative agenda isn't happening thus far. the frustration for that has been i think evident and palpable among people observing this process, but it has been tested and among those who are involved in this process. democrats involved in these negotiations have been quiet about their frustrations before today. now i will tell you, after senator bernie sanders held this remarkable press conference today kind of breaking the glass for once, expressing his frustration with joe manchin manchin's phrase the-ology and he doesn't understand what senator manchin means when he calls about making the u.s. entitlement society. senator manchin put out a statement in response. he said quote, respectfully senator sanders and i share very different policy in
political beliefs as he and i have discussed, senator sanders believes america should be more moving towards an entitlement society while i believe we should have a compassionate and rewarding society. you don't know what i mean by entitlements deciding, okay and entitlements the site is whatever you believe. whatever i believe, that's not an entitlement society, and involves a whole set of different and fake actives that mean nothing in this context, but sound better than entitlement which sounds bad. -- . so what happens now, what does this mean that senator sanders has done this today? what should we read into that in terms of where things are? it is an unusual one bowl thing for a member of the democratic caucus in the senate to call a press conference, for the purpose of critiqued king another democratic senator. but senator bernie sanders decided to break the unwritten rules of the senate, and you just that today. which applies to me that he is
that his breaking point, i am sort of desperate to know why. he will join us live to talk about exactly that after the break, stay with us. stay with us. as someone who resembles someone else... i appreciate that liberty mutual knows everyone's unique. that's why they customize your car insurance, so you only pay for what you need. [ nautical horn blows ] i mean just because you look like someone else doesn't mean you eat off the floor, or yell at the vacuum, or need flea medication. oh, yeah. that's the spot.
only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty, liberty, liberty, liberty ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ hey google. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
you get more with aarp medicare advantage plans from unitedhealthcare. like $0 copays on tier 1 and tier 2 prescription drugs. ♪ wow! ♪ ♪ uh-huh. ♪ so go ahead. take advantage now. ♪ wow! ♪ working at recology is more than a job for jesus. it's a family tradition. jesus took over his dad's roue when he retired after 47 year. now he's showing a new generation what recology is all about. as an employee-owned company, recology provides good-paying local jobs for san franciscans. we're proud to have built the city's recycling system from the ground up, helping to make san francisco
the greenest big city in america. let's keep making a differene together. it's another day. and anything could happen. it could be the day you welcome 1,200 guests and all their devices. or it could be the day there's a cyberthreat. only comcast business' secure network solutions give you the power of sd-wan and advanced security integrated on our activecore platform so you can control your network from anywhere, anytime. it's network management redefined. every day in business is a big day. we'll keep you ready for what's next. look, if we were in a room and comcast business powering possibilities.
in a caucus where have to people wanted something lower and have to people wanted something higher, you have to go somewhere in the middle. we're not in that position. i think there has to be some give or take. but to ask 48 people to go down to where two people want, that just seems to be unfair. not to mention, poll after poll shows with the american people wants to be. it is not where mr. manchin is. >> just 48 people to go down to what two people want. that just seems to be unfair. senator bernie sanders of vermont tonight. delivering a blunt message, and how compromise is supposed to work, a blunt message to his colleagues, senators joe manchin and kyrsten sinema. specifically talking about
manchin by, name to put it mildly it's not something we usually see of senators in the same party talking about each other in such blunt terms. it's a remarkable turn for senator sanders today, i'm eager to know what made him decide to do that today, joining us now is vermont senator bernie sanders. he's chair of the senate budget committee. senator sanders, it's a real pleasure to have you here tonight. thank you for having time. >> thank you for having me. >> you always speak your mind, you never leave any ambiguity or shadow or a gray area in terms of what you, roy and what you're seeking. and why. still though it was remarkable to hear your blunt language, today about your senate democratic colleague, about senator manchin. and how you feel like he's essentially behaving in an unfair way, what led you to that point today. >> i think there is a growing frustration, not only in congress but among the american people. that now is the timerachel, for us to try to restore the fate of the american people, in
their democracy. and in their government, and we in fact, can do meaningful things for them, that we can improve their lives. and all that we are trying to do, in many ways, is to do what countries all over the world are doing. is it really very radical, to say that all the people in america, should not have rotting teeth in their mouth? or should not be able to afford hearing aids. or eyeglasses? or that disabled people should be able to stay home. and get the care they need at home, rather than be forced into a nursing home. or that working families should pay 2025 30% of their income for childcare. and then when you deal with the issue of climate, just last week, scientists working on climate change got the nobel prize, climate change is the ex-essential threat, to our planet. we cannot walk away from that issue.
and we go back to our kids and our grandchildren and say, we can do it. this is the future of the planet. so i am tired of the generalities. hearing what mr. manchin and sinema, are saying. and if they want to negotiate, let's negotiate. but when you have the overwhelming majority of the american people, the overwhelming majority of the democratic house and senate caucus and you have the president of the united states, it's not a 50/50 deal, mr. manchin deserves to be heard, he deserves to get some compromises. but it's wrong, when one or two people think that they can dictate, the outcome of this. >> is that's what's actually happening with the negotiations? that rather than the entire democratic caucus being at one point, senators manchin in cinema being and another, and then finding out where in between you might be able to land, is it not happening that. way are they insisting it just
be what they, want full stop, 100 percent? or they will vote for the bill it all it'll die? >> that's the threat, that is exactly the threat. the threat is, and i hope everyone understands this. we have 50 votes, through republicans, i think we should pay a little bit of attention to the fact that there's one propublica and repaired to stand up to the pharmaceutical industry, to the fossil fuel industry, or the health insurance companies, or the billionaires who want to continue to get their tax breaks, and enjoy their loopholes. in truth, that is the leverage, that anyone member of the democratic caucus said, i could go to chuck schumer, the majority, leader and said chuck, you know that i believe that our current health care system is totally dysfunctional. wasteful, expensive, we pay the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs, unless you put a medicare for all single payer program into reconciliation package, i'm not voting for. i can do that tomorrow.
but that would be unfair to do. at most, half the caucus supports that decision. it would be wrong for me to say, take would iowa or amount of here, it's just not being part of the caucus. it's given take, and not holding that type of attitude. >> is it possible here that part of the problem is that, senator manchin and senator sinema, who you believe rightfully pointed out been very vague about what they want, that they might actually want different contradictory things? i think that thinking specifically about climate. at least in the abstract, senator sinema keeps saying she cares a lot about climate. and wants to do a lot on climate change mitigation efforts. senator manchin seems to be in sort of an opposite position, especially because of his past association with cost fossil fuel and coal companies. is it possible that they both have do or die things, that they're going to insist, and that are contradictory? and so there's no way to even please, them even if you try to
given to both of them? >> one of the problems that we have, is we're not quite clear about what either of them want, i think that you're right according to press reports, senator sinema is not unsympathetic to doing something on climate. on the other hand, according to press reports, whether they're true or not i don't, know but the press says that she is, does not want medicare to negotiate prescription drug prices, despite the fact that 90% of the american people want to lower prosper prescription drug costs in america. and that she does not want to have increased taxes on the very wealthy, is that true? i don't know. but that's one of the problems, we hear this third party, and we haven't heard that directly, from her. nor have we heard the specifics, in terms of what manchin wants. i think what we are going to have to do, i think there's a growing feeling, in the caucus to do this. to sit down in the room and say okay, do you really want to cut
child care? do you want to not have pre-k? do you really think we should not expand medicare or make sure people that have no insurance, in the republican states get an extension of medicaid? is that what you think? do you think we should not have tuition free community colleges? so kids can get the training that they need to go out and get the good paying jobs, that are sitting out there unfilled right now? we need that type of specificity, in order to negotiate appropriately, and we don't have it right now. >> i was struck by the fact that after you gave your press conference today, and talked about senator manchin by name, in such specific terms, he put out a statement, saying that, you and he have very different political beliefs, and that he thinks you want america to be an entitlement society, and he does it want that, he wants a compassionate and rewarding society. is it unusual dynamic playing
out, effectively through the press. you at this press conference, him in this written statements. they are the two of you going to eventually get together face to face and talk this out personally? will that be the way this resolves? >> it's not just me. we do meetings, part of leadership on part of the democratic leadership every week we sit down and these issues do come up. i'm not quite sure, and we need mr. manchin, senator manchin to help us out, what a compassionate and rewarding society is about. does that mean, addressing the reality, that 600,000 people in america, are homeless? does it mean dealing with the grotesque level of income wealth inequality, that we have? does it mean dealing with the fact that one out of four americans can't fill their prescriptions, that their doctors right, because the price of drugs in this country in some cases are ten times higher than other countries? we need some specificity.
if he wants to say i believe in entitlement's society. i would not look at it like that. i do believe in a nation, based on economics, social, racial and environmental justice. yes. frankly i admit. you got it right here on theshow. i believe that all americans are entitled, as human beings. two health care. i believe people are entitled to quality education, regardless of their income. i believe that people are entitled, to affordable housing. i don't believe that two people are entitled to own more wealth, than the bottom 40% of american society. by the way, one of the things that's playing out here, i don't think the media has paid appropriate attention to, is in the midst of all of this, the ruling class of this country, and that is the drug companies, insurance companies, fossil fuel industry, they are spending hundreds in hundreds of millions of dollars, pharmaceutical industry has
1500 paid lobbyists, on capitol hill. three lobbyist for every member of congress. so that we don't raise prescription drugs. this is a pivotal moment in american history, it seems to me really. and i'm going to continue to fight, as i have for working families. and do my best, to prevent this country, from moving in an authoritarian direction. which so many people out there, that worked long hours for the wrong wages. their kids are going nowhere. they can't take care there. parents and they are saying, does the united states government care about me? or are they only worried about their campaign contributions, from wealthy individuals? this is not only trying to improve life, for working families. who are really struggling to keep their ends together, it is whether or not, we retain a democracy, and government works for all. and not just the wealthy in the powerful. >> vermont senator bernie sanders, the chair of the senate budget committee, sir thank you for joining us. i know these negotiations are
fraught and everything is turning into very long days. things are helping us understand. >> thank you very muchrachel. thanks for having me. >> okay, we have a lot more to get to this evening. including as i mentioned at the top of theshow, this breaking news out of texas, just before we got on the air tonight, a federal judge, has put a stop for now, to the new texas abortion ban. the united states supreme court, the conservative majority allowed texas abortion ban to go into effect, a federal judges just put a temporary stop on it. we'll have more on that just ahead, stay with us. on that just ahead, stay with us.
♪ (vo) subaru presents... the underdogs. they may have lost an eye, or their hearing, or their youthful good looks. but there's a lot of things these remarkable dogs haven't lost... like their ability to lick, wag, and love with the best of them. join subaru in helping underdogs find a loving home and celebrate all dogs during our third annual national make a dog's day.

♪ ♪ i know the best coffee spot in town. i can make a rustic cabin feel modern. i am a guidebook for guests. i can make an indoorsy person, outdoorsy. i give families a home, not just a place to stay. i am a vrbo host. ♪ ♪ (music) ♪ i think to myself ♪ ♪ what a wonderful world ♪
(music) ♪ i think to myself ♪ ♪ what a wonderful world ♪ breaking news tonight, big breaking news tonight out of the state of texas. it was september 1st just over a month ago when the conservative majority on the united states supreme court let a texas state abortion ban go into effect. rowe vs. wade it's the postal protect women's abortion rights. nonetheless texas's ban on
abortions after just six weeks of pregnancy was allowed by the supreme court to go into effect. tonight a federal judge has stepped in and blocked the law. the u.s. justice department had sued texas over the law had asked the judge for this injunction, the injection was granted. now texas had asked the judge in the event that he was going to grant this injunction, texas asked him to hold on until texas could appeal. the judge explain tonight why he wouldn't do that. why the texas abortion ban must be blocked effective immediately. we judge that tonight in his ruling quo, the state has forfeited the right -- by at unprecedented and -- to the private citizens of a significant ten well-established constitutional right. well at least we thought it was their well-established constitutional right until the supreme court let it go into effect. let this ban go into effect. joining us now on the phone is amy one heck storm miller.
woman's all through is that the center to this texas law, miss texture miller i really appreciate you taking the time to join us tonight, i imagine this going to be a hectic evening for you. >> these are my favorite interviews with you, we got something to celebrate for once in texas. thank you so much. >> well tell me about the significance of this ruling, and how it's gonna impact? us >> well i will admit it's 130 page ruling summer and the whole thing yet, but wow we have been waiting a really long time for this and what has happened over the last 35 days has been devastating i know whole woman's health clinics and they fear that women's health bill next nine or trying to figure out how we can resume care, to 17 weeks, to 18 weeks, the 22 weeks depending on the clinics. as soon as possible. hundreds and hundreds of people have been denied the abortion care that they need, in this last month, and we are hoping to deliver them the care that they deserved and resume some sense of justice and fairness
and texas is doing is possible. >> the performance of this law in the state of texas of defending it, has admitted that they're ever here is to try and force you out of business. to try and forced abortion providers out of business, especially through intimidation through the idea that laws like this would be used to financially ruin, not only u.s. your institution, your clinics, your facilities, but individually. we won and harass and sort of chased down, anybody involved in the provision of abortion care. what kind of damage has been done in the month, plus, that this has been in effect? that intimidation doesn't turn off with a judge's ruling. >> no it doesn't. and it's been a really devastating month. i can't even begin to describe the chilling effect staff have been scared off doctors have been worry about providing care. patients are confused because
they think they might be sued. keep in mind 14 out of the 20 clinics left in the state of texas, our small independent providers who don't have a fundraising network. we don't have income if we are unable to see patients, just like any doctors office. so this law is designed to try and stop abortions by any means necessary, in the state of texas. and the justice that judge will pitman give us today is much needed and most clinics especially the whole health clinics, we have long waiting list of people who said please call us back if we can still get an abortion in the state of texas, because we can't travel outside of the state. you know like i told you before, most of our patients are seeking abortion care are parenting already, they are juggling multiple jobs, school, work, childcare, and making all these decisions during a pandemic that all of us are. so this justice couldn't have come soon enough, and we need to get the work to try and help the people who have been
waiting. >> just to be clear, amy, this goes into effect immediately, so if the law is now and joined in texas and means that as soon as coolness can get their doors open, get back in touch with patients, get themselves logistically back up and running, you will start providing services immediately? >> yes, that's what we're working towards to try and resume care beyond the six-week limit as soon as possible. >> amy hagstrom miller the ceo and founder of whole woman's health, which offers multiple columnist and texas. thank you so much tonight. what a whirlwind this has been, i know will continue to be. thank you. >> thank you so much,rachel, thank you. >> breaking news in texas the supreme court essentially taking a sledgehammer to rowe vs. wade by letting this man go into effect. thanks to u.s. justice department lawsuit going into a federal ruling tonight. texas abortion ban is on ice. at least for now.
we will be right back, stay with us. weight back, sta with us. with us. we it's not a steroid or inhaler. fasenra is an add-on treatment for asthma driven by eosinophils. it's one maintenance dose every 8 weeks. it helps prevent asthma attacks, improve breathing, and lower use of oral steroids. nearly 7 out of 10 adults with asthma may have elevated eosinophils. fasenra is designed to target and remove them. fasenra is not a rescue medication or for other eosinophilic conditions. fasenra may cause allergic reactions. get help right away if you have swelling of your face, mouth, and tongue, or trouble breathing. don't stop your asthma treatments unless your doctor tells you to. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection or your asthma worsens. headache and sore throat may occur. this is the sound of fasenra. ask your doctor about fasenra. if you can't afford your medication, astrazeneca may be able to help. ♪ limu emu & doug ♪
got a couple of bogeys on your six, limu. they need customized car insurance from liberty mutual so they only pay for what they need. what do you say we see what this bird can do? woooooooooooooo... we are not getting you a helicopter. looks like we're walking, kid. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪
♪ ♪ ♪ hey google. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
in business, setbacks change everything. so get comcast business internet and add securityedge. it helps keep your network safe by scanning for threats every 10 minutes. and unlike some cybersecurity options, this helps protect every connected device. yours, your employees' and even your customers'. so you can stay ahead. get started with a great offer and ask how you can add comcast business securityedge. plus for a limited time, ask how to get a $500 prepaid card when you upgrade. a month after trump was call today. inaugurated in 2017, a history professor named to the snyder, published this book. it's a tiny little thing, bigger than a pamphlet, boat smaller than most folks. and literally fits in the back pocket of your jeans. i have bought dozens of copies of this. books i have given them to just about everybody in my life. it's tired on tyranny, 20 left isn't from the 20th century. it's been a lone star for me in a lot of people over these past
four or five years. professor snyder's book, takes specific examples from the 20th century. of other countries around the world, this started as democracies, but then slipped. other countries that saw the rise of authoritarian forms of government, even in countries where you would not have expected it. and from those lessons, he offered's practical advice, to keep your country from doing that. to keep your country as a small d democratic country, it's the sort of book that you don't forget, when she read it, there's lessons in it they just stick with you. like, listen to, defend institutions, institutions help us preserve decency. they need our help as well, don't speak of our institutions unless you make them yours, by acting on their behalf. >> i think about that all the time. all the time. when i saw a statement from former president trump today, trying to redefine the insurrection he tried to pull off, president trump issued a statement today saying the
election itself was the insurrection. that was the crime. and all that happened on january six was a protest, against the criminally stolen election, on november 3rd. when he said that today, i thought of tim snider's less than ten. from on tyranny. which is, believe in truth. to abandon faxes to abandon freedom, if nothing is true that no one can criticize power, because there's no basis on which to do so. he says, quote you submit to tyranny when you are announce the difference between what you want to hear, and what is actually the case. that's from the new addition, the graphic addition, of until, many which just came out this week, it just came out yesterday, with illustrations by norah crew. the book is updated from its original publication in 2017, in a way that brings its lessons right up to where we are, today and what we're still struggling with. like this section, which reads to me like a chorus, about our last president. he says quote, it is not
patriotic to dodge the draft, or to my core heroes and their families. it's not patriotic to discriminate against active duty, or to campaign to keep disabled veterans away from one's property. it's not -- with military service in vietnam that one has dodged. it's not patriotic to avoid paying taxes, especially when american working families to pay. it's not patriotic to ask those working taxpaying american families to finance one's own presidential campaign, and then dispense their contributions, in one's own companies, it's not patriotic to call upon foreign leaders to intervene in american presidential elections. it's not patriotic to cite russian propaganda rallies. it's not patriotic to share and advisor with russian oligarchs, it's not patriotic to appoint a national security adviser who likes to be called general manisha, that's mike flynn, nor is a patriotic to pardon him for his crimes, it's not patriotic when that pardoned official calls for martial law, it's not patriotic to try to sabotage an american election,
in order to claim victory after defeat. it's not patriotic to try to end democracy. a nationalist mine to all of these things. but a nationalist is not a patriot. a nationalist encourages us to be our worst. and then tells us that we are the best. that is from the new addition, the new graphic addition, of on tierney, by professor timothy snyder, professor of history at yale. this is been a multi year bestseller, the new graphic addition of on tyranny is quite beautiful. updated its in bookstores as of yesterday. professor snyder thank you for being here tonight. >> my pleasure, glad to be with you. >> you wrote the original addition of on tyranny in response to what you saw happen in the 2016 presidential election, helping americans identify patterns that other countries, european countries have gone through. you wrote in the l.a. times this week that you've also observed the book, inspiring protesters and resistance
around the world. hong kong, poland, brazil, india, syria. did you know it would resonate this way around the world and not just in america? >> my hopes were much narrower. i was trying to take things that i thought i understood from the 20th century in europe, and from the dissidents in europe, who taught me, and from my contemporaries in eastern europe, we were struggling for democracy. and remind americans of the things that you should know. i was trying to teach us things that we thought we knew about nazism, or communism. it's been a great honor to me, to then see europeans repeat this back to me. and it's been a surprise, but also a great pleasure to receive the basic message of the book to be useful in places like brazil or india or china or hong kong. they have student leaders from his far away as thailand, translate the book themselves. this is been extraordinary, but it's also a source of hope, because they suggest that if we're facing the same problems, we might also be able to use a similar language, and take
similar actions. >> indeed, one of the things that you say, is one of the lessons we need to, learn is to make contacts and other countries, to make sure we have passports. to make sure we stay in touch with people who may have confronted some of the same problems, and may have been wiser than us. in the way that they dealt with them. one of the things that i found myself, having gone back to the book, and read it again, now that it's out in this beautiful graphic addition. i realize that when i first read this work in 2017, an immense so much, to me we've talked about a number of times over the years, the one place where i felt like, what he's talking about here doesn't resonate with me? i don't think we'll get there. was the message about violence. less and six. be wary of paramilitaries. when the men with guns of always claim to be against the system, start wearing uniforms in marching with torches in pictures of a leader, the end is nigh. when the pro-leader paramilitaries, and the official police and military, intermingle, the end has come. that was one thing that didn't resonate with me before.
because i couldn't picture it. but now, you are picturing something like what happened on january six. >> yes, the last several lessons in the book are all about that. the book is meant to be a guide starting with less than one, don't -- moving through to the, and be as courageous as you can. but it's also meant to charter trajectory, away from democracy in the rule of law. towards authoritarianism and violence. and we have got through those 20 steps, pretty quickly. on january six of this year, at the very latest, we see with the alternative to democracy is. we see what it looks like, and we see how that is the alternative. it's not that if we lose democracy we just kind of go on with their lives, if we lose democracy, we have that kind of image, but not just one day every four, years that sort of thing becomes normal. >> also the prospect that we continue to, on paper, have the same institutions, that we believe are the pillars of our democracy, but they become meaningless institutions, we continue to have elections but they have been corrupted, they
have been manipulated in such a way that they won't actually represent the will of the people, that we continue to have legislators and elective leaders, who necessarily follow the authoritarian's guide, whether or not they have their own views or policy positions that might put them at odds with the. it does feel like we're racing down that path faster than i could have thought. >> one of the things that i think i understood from the people i learned from, living or dead, is that undergoing all these lessons, have to be values. we will not be saved by -- we will not be saved by, the system as it exists. we will be saved, if we think about democracy is something which has a future, which we care about, which we love, which has all kinds of little daily components to which we all contribute. one thing i like about the illustrated addition, is that it brings out that hopeful elements of the book, it's not just about the risks we face, but it also suggest we might have much. better >> yes, exactly.
tim snyder for professor of history yale university, -- 20 lessons from the 20th century, which i cannot recommend highly, enough including the new graphic addition, of until, many is now in bookstores. i read it and absorbed all the illustrations and all of it in one sitting. and, you will too if you buy, it's remarkable stuff. >> think you. >> that will do it for us for now, see you again tomorrow, now it's time for the last word with lawrence o'donnell, good evening lawrence. >> good eveningrachel, we have the decision, this order by the judge in texas federal judge in texas, that i think many people anticipated, that there would be a federal judge somewhere in texas, you would see it this way. just completely shutting down, that texas law, ordering absolutely no administration of that new texas abortion law at all. none of these lawsuits specifically setting in order to every state court, every jue,