because of denialism. malpractice. mismanagement. we lost over 515,000 americans and sadly on that note, that's our broadcast for this tuesday night with our thanks for being here with us and thank you for making us number one at 111:00 eastern time every night. on behalf of all of the colleagues at nbc news, good night. ♪ ♪ >> before we start in ernest tonight i want to take a second if you will indulge me. i have a thank you that i need to say. i wanted to tell you we had a couple of milestones here at theshow, good ones. in january for the first time ever thisshowwas the most watchedshowon all of cable television, which is crazy.
everything. that was in january, which was flummoxing. and then today we learned that we did it for a second month in a row and it turns out we were the most watchedshowon cable tv for january and february. i have no idea what to make of. but even better than that, for february, for this past month not only were we the most watchedshowon cable, but this network, msnbc, was the most watched network in all of cable tv in the month of february. you know i don't talk about ratings and all of that stuff. i will not mention it again. but it is a really big deal for
us. it does blow my mind but i am so grateful and humbled. we will do our best to keep you worthy of your time and trust. let us never speak of this again. sorry. i had to get it out. today the nation's new commerce secretary was confirmed by the senate. the governor of rhode island or she was and now she is our commerce secretary. yesterday the new education secretary, miguel cardona. the chair of the council of economic advisors. william burns to be cia director, just got a unanimous vote out of the intelligence committee. that will now head to the floor. a unanimous vote in committee is a good sign he might get a unanimous vote on the floor.
those both seem to be on track to happen soon as well. now, before tonight we were still waiting after days and days and days and days to see if a republican senator can support neera tanden. the reason the white house needed to look for a republican is because joe manchin of west virginia announced he would not vote for her. he said he would not support her nomination because he decided he did not like the combative tone of some of her past tweets. the reason the announcement he would not support her has been a stain on senator manchin's
reputation. it is the standard he is applying here. he confirmed plenty of trump nominees, all men, who had much worse problems with their online tone than neera tanden got anywhere near. the reason it is a problem for him and his reputation is because for some reason he was only bothered by her tone in her online statements. he was not similarly bothered by the much more inflammatory things said by republican male nominees who he happily voted for in the past. all senators have a choice. they are consulted. the problem is not senator manchin voting against a democratic president's nominee but applying a blatant and
inexplicable double standard for her. guys that did much worse were no problem for him. we were waiting to see if he would explain that. we have been waiting to see if a republican would stand up to support her. so she could get the 50 votes she needed to be confirmed. the republican senator from alaska was thought of as a potential crossover vote. but tonight, all of this waiting and wondering over the behavior of senator manchin came to an end. the waiting about neera tanden
came to an end when she had to withdraw her nomination. they will put her in a job that does not require senate confirmation. there is uncle certainty in terms of how the biden cabinet will look in the end. merrick garland seems to be moving forward very smoothly to become the next attorney general of the united states. although somewhat along the same lines, perhaps. it should also be noted two women of color named by president biden to be other senior officials in the justice department working under the attorney general designate
merrick garland. two women that have attracted rabid attacks from republicans at this point. we will see what happens to their nominations as merrick garland seems to be moving forward. we will see if joe manchin decides he does not like them for some reason. at the justice department we will have more on the burning wreckage that all of the biden appointees will be walking into at the justice department and the challenge ahead with the prosecutions related to the capitol attack. an interesting and surprise announcement about who will be taking a key job in the biden justice department that will have an important relationship to the january 6 arrests and prosecutions and to a bunch of the cases that ended up in weird legal limbo. a new appointee announced today for a key part of the justice
department who will have that mess to clean up. we will have more on that later on this hour. the new defense secretary in the biden administration, you will remember he was confirmed quickly after the inauguration, retired general lloyd austin. it is interesting. for all of the diversity in our armed forces and including at the top all of the pioneering leadership like colin powell. the defense department never had an african-american secretary of defense before mr. austin this year under president biden. you might remember a few years back in canada, the prime minister also made a groundbreaking glass ceiling breaking choice for defense minister in that country choosing a man for canada's
minister of national defense, the equivalent position of what lloyd austin is here in ours. he is a combat veteran with multiple tours in afghanistan and a former police officer and became a bit of a media star when first named to the cabinet. but the canadian defense minister was one of our sikh canadians that justin trudeau named to his first cabinet. the minister of defense, science, tourism and defense minister. all four of sikh origin in justin trudeau's first cabinet. the canadian population overall is about 1.5% sikh. as the numbers have grown and sikh families have prospered in canada and have been elected to
parliament. every now and again we here in the states get media crossover into our media and our culture of something cool happening in can do to celebrate this particular relatively new type of diversity among canadians and new immigrants there. this gentleman's social media presence is all about the over the top joy that he takes in teaching other canadians, born and bred. immigrant canadians from all over. here he is teaching canadian soldiers at a firefightering training base. see the helicopter in the back on fire. canadian soldiers. he is teaching them how to dance. everybody can do it and is
having the time of their lives. here he is on a navy warship teaching canadian navy sailors. and this is what that same guy just posted today. so he says in the tweet that accompanies the video that yesterday evening i received my covid-19 vaccine. then i went to a frozen lake to dance bhangra off. i got my vaccine dance. his joy at getting his covid vaccine. makes me feel better already. >> and here in the united states
today the tennessee version of that for us. >> it's me. i am finally going to get my vaccine. i have been waiting a while. i am old enough to get it and smart enough to get it and i am happy i am going to get my moderna shot and i want to tell everybody you should get out there and do it too. i changed one of my songs to fit the occasion. vaccine, vaccine, vaccine, i am begging of you please don't hesitate. vaccine, vaccine, vaccine, once you're dead that's a bit too late. i know i am trying to be funny now. i am dead serious about the vaccine. i think we all want to be back to normal, whatever that is and that would be a great shot in the arm. the sooner we get to feeling
better, the sooner we will get back to be normal. i want to say to all of you cowards out there. don't be such a chicken squat. get out there and get your shot. >> dolly parton today, the one and only. she had a long-time relationship with vanderbilt university. you may have seen the immediatelies. shy gave them $1 million donation to help with their research. today dolly parton got her moderna vaccine shot. because she is dolly parton, she got it without having to roll up her shreve because she already had a special dress with upper shoulder cut-outs so they could give her the shot right there without interrupting even for a second her perfect dolly parton
glamour. >> mess up my beauty mark. i'm joking. you do what you got to do. i don't want blood on my clothes. i did it. i did it. >> dolly got her shot. the sikh canadian teach everyone to dance guy got it and went out and danced the bhangra on a frozen lake. i will take it. more like this please. today was a bunch of really big news on covid. inexplicable news mixed in from texas and mississippi.
today governors in those states announced they are dropping mask requirements entirely. why now? texas and mississippi are both states where case numbers have very recently started to climb back up. look at the far side of each of the graphs. for all of the progress that each of the states made and all of the trauma and the death they have been through, their numbers have just started to come back up. case numbers in both states are on the upswing. and vaccines are now rolling out. insufficient and increasing numbers that can get us to the end of the things if we hold on a few more weeks. they are pulling all covid-related rules. like i said. to some fairly inexplicable decisions in texas and mississippi. it is not like texas and mississippi have other things to worry about.
they have huge present danger. because the state has blown it. we got very big news about vaccine progress. they persuaded two big rival drug companies to stop competing and to cooperate to help each other out. all of the data says that it works great. only needs to be scored in a normal refrigerator. it is cheaper than the other two vaccines. it has everything going for it but for whatever reason the biden administration has been
saying for a while they were surprised to learn when they took over five weeks ago that johnson & johnson didn't have the capacity to manufacture that vaccine in large amounts. there was a whole effort to work on that problem. the biden administration announced they worked out a deal where this competing company will come in and help with the manufacturing of another company's vaccine. >> the vice president and i have good news to report. we are announcing today a major step forward.
johnson & johnson and merck will work together to expand the production of johnson & johnson's vaccine. the type of collaboration between companies we saw in world war ii and we invoked the defense production act to equip two merck facilities to the standards necessary to safely manufacture the j&j vaccine. the manufacturing facilities will now begin to operate 24/7. here is what all of it means. we are now on track to have enough vaccine supply for every adult in america by the end of may. let me say that again and i am pleased to announce today as a consequence of this stepped up process i have ordered and just outlined this country will have enough vaccine supply for every adult in america by the end of may. by the end of may.
that's progress. >> enough vaccine for every adult in america by may 31st. by the end of may. if he means that, i think that means in some ways we might get summer back this year? i mean depending whether or not that vaccine actually gets into enough american arms. end of may. that is two months earlier than they previously thought they would get there and the president went on to say that in order to add minister all of the vaccines we need more vaccinators, fema personnel, defense department personnel. i want to know more about that. one thing to have enough of the flu. one thing to have enough of the vaccine sitting in viles. another thing to make sure that it can get into enough americans. if production will be that much faster than they thought and fixed enough of the bottlenecks we will have enough for every american by the end of may we better have a distribution
system to get it into enough americans by the end of may to, well, change everything. i want to know more about that and this part of it. president biden said that in his first 100 days he wanted the u.s. to add minister 100 million vaccination doses. 37 days in we are over halfway there and well over 50 million doses administered. it does look like we are ahead of the target to hit that. language side the 100 million doses. he wanted all elementary schools reopened. there is a lot of concern if for what it will take to get schools to the point where they do meet the criteria. the money will help, but that is
a way off and hasn't passed the senate yet. so teachers and school staff have been worried about what it means. everybody agrees it is an important goal and really important for kids. but it is unnerving to have that sense of pressure and that sense of forced reopenings that so many adults that make them run still can't get vaccinated. >> over 30 states have taken a step to priority educators for vaccination. and today i am using the full authority of the federal government. i am directing every state to do the same. my challenge to all states, territories and the district of columbia is this. we want every educator, school staff member and child care
worker to receive at least one shot by the end of the month of march. to help make it happen starting next week and for the month of march, we will use the federal pharmacy program to prioritize the vaccination of pre-k through 12. throughout march they will be able to sign up for an appointment at a pharmacy near them. >> they will be able to sign up for an appointment at a pharmacy near them, prek-12. elementary, high school educators and staff and child care workers. what is the federal pharmacy program and how will it work? he wants it done by the end of march and to have one vaccination shot by the end of the month. that would be huge.
how is that going to work exactly. are we really going to have enough vaccine for every adult in the country by the end of may? is it just on paper or is the distribution plan enough to make that happen? as much as i love the winter. dancing on a frozen lake. i love the winter. the idea of a country where all of the teachers are vaccinated this month and there is vaccine for everyone in the country before the start of june. that is enough to make me love the spring, and the summer too. joining us now for the interview is dr. david kesler, the chief science officer for covid-19 response under president biden.
>> you got it exactly right. in three months we will have enough vaccine for every adult in this country. >> when you think of the match of the need to the resources, this is obviously a huge piece of it. will there be enough fluid in viles to vaccinate every adult in the country, knowing that it is now going to happen by the end of may rather than july which was the ambitious goal you announced. that is a huge piece of it. the other part is the distribution. we have all experienced it. my family experienced it 1,000 times over. the difficulty and the complexity in trying to get people matched up with the vaccines they need.
are we going to meet the need in the way that a vaccine is? >> exactly. we will add and we are adding every week. increased number of vaccinators and sites. mid-sized vaccination centers, community health centers. as you mentioned, there will be a federal pharmacy program for teachers among others. so, there are a number of increasing distribution channels that will keep up with the increased supply of vaccines.
for the teachers and the school staff members and all of their families watching it. >> beginning the week of march 8 go to the cdc website. if you are a teacher, you will see the participating pharmacies there in your neighborhood. the ones that you can go to. go to their webpage. if you are a teacher. if you area i child care or a staff worker on or a bus driver in a school, you are eligible to go to that pharmacy and get your vaccine and we want all teachers to have at least one vaccination the month of march. >> dr. kesler, you said that president biden instructed you
when he took office to do everything possible to accelerate the production of the johnson & johnson vaccine. you told me and all of us here you were working on it day and night. i have to ask you, given your concern and involvement, were you working on brokering the deal. >> the answer is yes. you go back and if you look at the history. president biden made it very clear. the message is that there is nothing too big you can't do. go big here. these companies came together.
i have to give them enormous credit. this is an historic partnership. they will produce and they will double the amount of drug substance. this is what is required. this is their time. we were all in this with them. >> i am not asking you a politics question. the former president, president trump was vaccinated at the white house in january. i thought that while he was president he had never told americans to get vaccinated. turns out that he said in a
tweet in december everybody should get their shots. but that story highlights something that is very difficult for our country in particular about vaccines. we have an odd partisan divide on vaccine hesitancy. democrats are more than twice as likely as republicans to say they will get the shot when they can. now that we a weird partisan divide, how do you guys work to help republicans feel more positively about the vaccine? >> just the science,rachel. 2,000 people. more than 2,000 people have died
each day recently. this vaccine prevents death. it prevents hospitalization. the vast majority of people. it is that simple. i mean today 65,000 cases a day. there are variants that are of concern. we can put it behind us, and yes, we will have enough vaccine in the next three months for every american. but as the president said, you know, those are the vaccines. we need vaccinations. it will take everybody to step up to do their part to get this over with. it is a really honor for us. thank you. >> thank you,rachel.
if there is going to be enough vaccine by the end of may, that is such a change in the trajectory that we were expecting. the delivery has to be there, but it might have given us back so much time and saved so many lives if we can get there. huge day. much more to get to tonight. stay with us. day much more to get to tonight. stay with us

feeling sluggish or weighed down? it could be a sign that your digestive system isn't working at it's best taking metamucil everyday can help. metamucil psyllium fiber, gels to trap and remove the waste that weighs you down. it also helps lower cholesterol and slows sugar absorption to promote healthy blood sugar levels. so you can feel lighter and more energetic metamucil. support your daily digestive health. and try metamucil fiber thins. a great tasting and easy way to start your day. like you, my hands are everything to me. but i was diagnosed with dupuytren's contracture. and it got to the point where things i took for granted got tougher to do. thought surgery was my only option. turns out i was wrong. so when a hand specialist told me about nonsurgical treatments, it was a total game changer.
like you, my hands have a lot more to do. learn more at factsonhand.com today.
there is something to watch for in tomorrow's news. the u.s. senate tomorrow will hold their second hearing about the january 6th attack on the capitol. for the first time we will hear testimony from pentagon officials about what happened. last week police officials testified about desperate efforts to get the national
guard. the acting police chief said that he was stunned. d.c. officials and police officials were begging the army to send in the national guard help to back up the pomeranz police who were being overrun. on the call on the pentagon side we know was a general named charlie flynn, the brother of disgraced trump national security advisor mike flynn who called on trump to invoke martial law and use the military to overturn the presidential election results. mike flynn's brother, general charlie flynn denied that his relationship with his brother had any connection to his actions or the pentagon's lack of a response that day.
we still don't know what the involvement was. why did they lie about mike flynn's role having a part in the decision making process. today on capitol hill we got the first testimony from the fbi. people pretending to be trump supporters by dressing up like them in costume. the fbi director christopher wray said white supremacists were among those in the attack and that the fbi's domestic
terrorism case load doubled and the number of arrests of violent white supremacists have tripled and over 300 people were arrested in connection with the capitol riot and they are building more cases against those people including charges of planning and coordination. director wray did not offer a lot of detail today on the cases. frankly it was good to get anything at all. i don't know if it is just that the folks at doj are staying quiet while waiting for president biden's attorney general nominee to be confirmed and start working. we are expecting the senate vote as i mentioned any day now. the top federal prosecutor in d.c. running the federal investigation into the capitol attack hasn't held a public briefing on that investigation in five weeks.
we did get news today out of the office. the biden administration announced a new man to run that office. a veteran, a former federal prosecutor who has run the d.c. attorneys office twice before. it did not get a ton of national attention but it deserves it. it is unusual for a new president to appoint a new acting u.s. attorney. last month nearly all of the trump appointed attorneys submitted their resignations. generally they step up to become the acting chief. but in this case, this case in the d.c. attorney's office, the biden administration put in their own acting top federal
prosecutor in d.c. somebody from outside the office who has a long tenure. hasn't been serving there now. they are coming over to take over immediately while they go through the process of nominating a permanent u.s. attorney for that role. especially since donald trump got ahold of it. the last nominated attorney in d.c. was forced out by bill barr under still not fully explained circumstances. she was replaced by one of bill barr's closest personal aides who set about helping to turn the d.c. attorneys office into a cudgel to be wielded against the president's enemies and to help the president's friends who were in trouble including the justice department overruling career prosecutors to recommend a significantly lighter sentence
for roger stone prompting four prosecutors to withdraw from the case and one to quit the justice department all together. to those charges. all of the attorneys involved in the flynn case. signed only by bill barr's hand-picked staffer. barr installed a bunch of outside lawyers at the d.c. attorneys office to oversee and second ondrej kases that had connections to president trump. indicating the possibility that investigations touching on president trump or his interests disappeared by bill barr and his goons.
without them becoming known to the public. that was the d.c. attorney office under donald trump. still tonight, until the new guy gets there tomorrow, being run by a different former bill barr staffer who has been an acting u.s. attorney since last may. the office is the office responsible for prosecuting all of the january 6 capitol attackers. there is a giant mess years in the making that needs to be cleaned up. last night there were multiple investigations and two criminal investigations. one by state prosecutors in new york and the other in georgia involving former president trump, the first in history we had a former president under criminal investigation before. for all of the investigations that are on going and all of the criminal behavior by the president being investigated by multiple prosecutors, none are federal and none of them are federal cases.
in some cases by activity that really, really looked like corrupting the federal prosecutor's office that handled cases that might touch on the president. that is died on to the bumper of the justice department until somebody sets it on fire or cuts it off. that is a live wire the biden administration can't leave sparking and bouncing around. that absolutely has to be handled. we are about to get a new attorney general. we are about, about to get a new acting u.s. attorney in d.c., which is an unusual move. is that a sign that this is about to be handled? expert advice on figuring that out coming up. stay with us. iguring that out coming up. stay with us gillette proglide. five blades and a pivoting flexball designed to get virtually every hair on the first stroke. so you're ready for the day with a fresh face for a fresh start. for a limited time get a 5th cartridge free. ♪♪ i've always been running.
to meetings. errands. now i'm running for me. i've always dreamed of seeing the world. but i'm not chasing my dream anymore. i made a financial plan to live it every day. ♪ there was a dream ♪ ♪ and one day i could see it ♪ at northwestern mutual, our version of financial planning helps you live your dreams today. find a northwestern mutual advisor at nm.com wanna build a gaming business that breaks the internet? that means working night and day... ...and delegating to an experienced live bookkeeper for peace of mind. your books are all set. so you can finally give john some attention. trusted experts. guaranteed accurate books. intuit quickbooks live. instantly clear every day congestion
with vicks sinex saline nasal mist. for drug free relief that works fast. vicks sinex. instantly clear everday congestion. (woman) what should we do with it first? (man) road trip. (woman) yes. (woman) off-road trip. (man) how hot is the diablo chili? (waitress) well, you've got to sign a waiver. [loud laughter] (woman) is this even a road? (man) yeah. (woman) so what should we do second? (vo male) the subaru forester. the most adventurous forester ever. (vo female) get 0% for 63 months on select new 2021 models. now through march 31st. was that your great-grandmother, keeping the family together? was that your grandfather, paving the way for change. did they brave mother nature... and walk away stronger? did they face the unknown, with resolve...and triumph.
♪♪ there's strength in every family story. learn more about yours. at ancestry. did you know that your clothes can actually attract pet hair? with bounce pet hair & lint guard, there's strength in every family story. your clothes can repel pet hair. look how the shirt on the left attracts pet hair like a magnet! pet hair is no match for bounce. with bounce, you can love your pets, and lint roll less. california phones offers free specialized phones... like cordless phones. - ( phone ringing ) - big button, and volume-enhanced phones. get details on this state program. visit right now or call during business hours.
now california phones offers free devices and accessories for your mobile phone. like this device to increase volume on your cell phone. - ( phone ringing ) - get details on this state program visit right now or call during business hours.   last year, february, "new york times" justice department reporter wrote about serious trouble at the u.s. attorney's office in d.c. as career prosecutors found themselves
repeatedly subjected to political pressure on their cases from their superiors. the article quoted channing phillips who had run the d.c. office during the obama administration saying recent events suggest undue meddling by higher-ups at the justice department and today the biden administration announced that same channing phillips will be responsible for fixing the damage. he has been appointed to step into the u.s. attorney's office and take over starting tomorrow as acting u.s. attorney. an unusual move. joining us now is the "new york times" justice department katie benner. thanks for being here. >> thanks for having me. >> at the start of the new administration, we are used to new u.s. attorneys for all of the offices around the country or most. this does seem unusual to have somebody appointed to be an acting u.s. attorney to come in immediately before anyone has
been nominated on a permanent base. >> yes, it is an unusual arrangement. the u.s. attorney's oufs in d.c. has been the site of so much controversy and the place michael sherwin was put in place under other odd circumstances where the previous attorney was ousted and her replacement was removed. another man in ohio, the department claimed he was going to come in to serve as u.s. attorney but it was used as like a fig leaf to allow him to stay on because he could say there was someone the president intended to put in place. just unusual all around. putting in channing phillips, it is seen as a stabilizing move. >> you wrote today, katie, that there is hope he will help to restore confidence and morale in the office that has been hit by
allegations of political interference. is there going to be some sort of effort to find out what happened. the justice department essentially misbehaving in ways to help the president and his interests. >> i think the questions are being asked internally. they are bringing in someone like channing phillips if you want the answer is a good move. he is trusted by people in the office and he has deep roots in washington. his father is a very well known civil rights leader here in d.c. he was the first african-american to be considered as a presidential candidate. that did not work out. he was seriously considered for that role. and phillips himself has the trust of people in the office. if you want to get to the bottom of what happened, you would like someone like him in place.
>> justice department reporter for the "new york times." really helpful to have you here and have you on the beat for the long arc of the stories. some way you are the institutional memory of what went wrong here and being able to follow it through as the things get resolved or at least addressed. a real service. thank you, katie. all right. we will be right back. stay with us. all right. we will be right back. stay with us bacteria, he wants us to spray everything every time we walk into the door. it's just to be sure. just to be sure! tide antibacterial fabric spray. (dramatic music) (announcer) the right car for you is out there. and at truecar, you can find it and a great price. because truecar knows what people in your area have paid for the car you want and canshowyou what's an especially high price and what's an uncommonly low price, so you can see what's a great price and get the actual price you'll pay at the dealership. ♪ get your car and a great deal, all from home,
with truecar. ♪ losing a tooth didn't stop you but your partial can act like a bacteria magnet, putting natural teeth at risk. new polident propartial helps purify your partial and strengthens and protects natural teeth. so, are you gonna lose another tooth? not on my watch!

wanna build a gaming business that breaks the internet? that means working night and day... ...and delegating to an experienced live bookkeeper for peace of mind. your books are all set. so you can finally give john some attention. trusted experts. guaranteed accurate books. intuit quickbooks live.
you can't plan for your period's... what the gush moments. but the right pad can. only always ultra thins have rapiddry technology and, they absorb 40% faster. the gush happens fast. that's why always absorbs faster.   it is day 15 with no running water in parts of south jackson, and bottled water the hardest to find. people need to brush teeth, rinse off or take medication are having to drive to multiple locations to get their hands on some. >> it is hard not to have any water. i wouldn't want anyone to be without water. >> reporter: on a daily basis they bring five to six containers to forest hill high for volunteers to fill up.   for more than two weeks now
thousands of people in the city of jackson, mississippi have been without safe drinking water. a cold snap over two weeks ago caused all of that trouble in texas but 96 breaks in water mains in jackson. entire city put under a boil water notice. some had no running water at all. the city has fixed 53 of the 96 water main breaks they know of. again, it has been more than two weeks and local officials have no estimate as to when the water in jackson will be safe to drink and no idea when normal service will be restored. more ahead tonight. stay with us. restored more ahead tonight stay with us give you a sort of white smile. try new crest whitening emulsions. for 100% whiter teeth. its highly active peroxide droplets swipe on in seconds. and stays on ten times longer to continue whitening long after you apply. with virtually no sensitivity. no rinsing, no brushing off. just apply and go.
try new crest whitening emulsions. better. faster. 100% whiter teeth. shop crestwhitesmile.com (announcer) do you want to reduce stress? shed pounds? do you want to flatten your stomach?
do all that and more in just 10 minutes a day with aerotrainer, the total body fitness solution that uses its revolutionary ergonomic design to help you to maintain comfortable, correct form. that means better results in less time. you can do an uncomfortable, old-fashioned crunch or an aerotrainer super crunch. turn regular planks into turbo planks without getting down on the floor. and there are over 20 exercises to choose from. incredible for improving flexibility and perfect for enhancing yoga and pilates. and safe for all fitness levels. get gym results at home in just 10 minutes a day. no expensive machines, no expensive memberships. get off the floor with aerotrainer. go to aerotrainer.com to get yours now. wanna build a gaming business that breaks the internet? that means working night and day... ...and delegating to an experienced live bookkeeper for peace of mind.
your books are all set. so you can finally give john some attention. trusted experts. guaranteed accurate books. intuit quickbooks live.
that is going to do it for us tonight. it's going to be a big day in the news tomorrow. with the january 6th hearing that will involve pentagon officials for the first time. they have a lot to explain about where the national guard was and why they were so delayed on january 6th. should be fascinating to watch. now it's time for "the last word with lawrence o'donnell." good evening, lawrence. >> good evening,rachel. i know you said, let us never speak of this again. but this news about "therachelmaddowshow" being the highest ratedshowon all of cable television, not just cable news, but all of cable television is worth mentioning just this one more time. and i have to include a thank you to you,rachel, because thanks to your enormous ratings