himself as an example, i have the highest respect for him. but he's an example of what happens when you call for that courage. he spoke out against donald trump, and i think it helped cost him his seat, the last time around. so, there is a price to pay for confronting donald trump directly. and most republicans have shown that they are unwilling to pay that price and bear the burden it comes with engaging and bringing on the wrap of trump. fernand amandi and carlos curbelo, thank you so much for joining us tonight on all in with chris hayes. that is all in on this monday night. i am jason johnson, sitting in for chris hayes. he'll be back tomorrow. therachelmaddowshowstarts right now. good evening,rachel. >> good evening, jason. it's great to see you in that chair. great to have you here. >> thank you so much. i >> thank you so much. i am honored. thank you so much. >> excellent. all right. thanks to you at home as well for being here. we're super happy to have you here. september 29th, 1973. the vice president of the
united states flew to california to give a speech. it was a speech that he knew he would be giving to some of his most die hard fans. people who would follow him until the end of the earth. and that was crucial at that moment in his political life, because just a few weeks earlier, the wall street journal was first to report that that same vice president, spiro agnew, he was under federal criminal investigation for potential felony corruption charges, bribery, extortion, tax evasion, a bunch of stuff. this was very shocking front page news at the time. it was very damaging news, for obvious reasons, to the vice president, and he was just completely enraged about it. so he flew out to california september 29th, 1973, to give a talk to his most rabid supporters. it was the national conference of republican women. and, um, these women were hard
core activists. as a group, generally speaking, they were quite right wing and quite devoted to spiro agnew. agnew was seen as being much more hard right, much more pugnacious and compromising than the old squish president nixon was. so the hard right and real activists of the republican party, they loved agnew even more than they loved richard nixon. so while agnew, their guy, was embattled by this reported criminal investigation, he goes up there to give a speech. and what he told them at that speech started off blunt, but kind of normal. he said i am innocent of the charges against me. he then told them, this was slightly more surprising, he told the crowd that he was going to use the courts himself to turn the tables and
investigate the justice department for investigating him. oh, you're going to investigate me? well, i'm going to investigate you right back. you're the real scandal, you're the real scoundrels. that got a big round of cheers. but then, what he was winding up to, his big sort of climax of the speech. the thing that actually got the republican women in the room up on their chairs standing, applauding, and screaming for him, the apex of his speech was when he said because the whole process was so corrupt, because the whole thing was such a witch hunt against him, because they were only coming after him because he was a big deal and he was conservative, and all the liberals out there and the deep state were trying to, because it was all rigged, it was a witch hunt, it was a hoax. he told the crowd he wanted to set expectations. they should understand and know that no matter what happened to him, no matter what these justice department prosecutors tried to pull on
him, no one should expect him to resign. >> they are trying to recoup their reputation at my expense. i'm a big trophy. because small and fearful men have been frightened into furnishing evidence against me, they have perjured themselves, in my cases, it's my understanding. i will not resign in indicted. i will not resign if indicted. >> and the crowd goes wild! vice president spiro agnew speaking september 19th, 1973. i will not resign if indicted, i will not resign if indicted. exactly 11 days later, vice president spiro agnew was indicted, and he resigned that same day. actually, like within two minutes. he actually had done a deal
with federal prosecutors where they'd let him plead no contest to just 1 of the 40 felonies they charged him with, and he agreed to that one no contest plea and agreed to resign from office, they'd let him off on the other 39 felonies. just amazing. i mean, that's a political classic. i will not resign if indicted! the fact that he said it twice for emphasis just makes it so much worse. i will not resign if indicted. oh, yes you will! and we won't even have to wait two weeks for it! took him 11 days. so that was 1973. i will not resign if indicted. that was 1973. this was yesterday. trump vows to, trump vows not to drop out of 2024 race if indicted. trump says he won't drop out of the 2024 race if indicted. trump says he'll stay in 2024 race if indicted. everyone say it all together
now. i will not resign if indicted! it's the exact same thing! does he know that he's living history? does he have any idea? see if you can get him to say i am not a crook! he'll say it! he'll have no idea he's doing nixon's most famous lionel line if you get him to see that.   a couple weeks ago here on theshow, we talked about something happening abroad. big growing protests in israel. protests against a plan by that country's prime minister to effectively take over the judicial system in the country, to take over the courts. the prime minister in israel is facing criminal corruption charges himself, and so he says the court system is out of control and he's going to bring it under control, specifically bring it under his control. he's basically going to take it over. so law enforcement and the courts would no longer be
independent. he would, of course, consolidate power massively by consolidating control over that part of the government, which would mean no more push back from the courts and anything he wanted to do with power. also, presumably, the corruption charges would go poof. once that happen, you don't have to worry about getting dissuaded from potential crimes that catch your fancy in the future because now you control the legal system, you control the courts, you can do what you want. it's easy to see how this is a pillar of democracy. an independent legal system, an independent judiciary is one of the most very basic things that prevents would be strong man leaders have taking complete control and becoming dictators and ruling by force. if the courts also have authority, the courts can constrain the would be dictator from doing things he otherwise would want to do, but the courts could tell is illegal. that's why we reported a few
weeks ago on the big protests in israel against what the prime minister is trying to do. this is this weekend in israel. the protests are still going on. they're gigantic. it's been nine straight weeks of increasingly large and increasingly determined protests. in multiple cities in that country. and now tonight, multiple news organizations are reporting that important parts of that country's military are joining in a form of protest as well as a way of standing up for the independent judiciary. standing up against this effort to take over the country's legal system. here's the front page of the new york times tonight. quote, a plan by benjamin netanyahu to curtail the powers of israel's supreme court has prompted weeks of demonstrations, rattled the country's technology sector, and raised fears of political violence. now protests are emerging even within the nation's military. hundreds of soldiers in the military reserves either have
signed letters expressing a reluctance to participate in nonessential duty or already pulled out of training missions. the effected units include the 8200 division that deals with cyber intelligence, and whose graduates helped drive the country's tech industry as well as elite combat units. so that, i mean, that's a whole of society response. a loud rejection. the people saying no, we want the legal system left alone. we want our legal system, our judiciary to be left independent. it will not be taken over by the dear leader, by the ruling party. it stays independent. and, you know, if you care about israel itself as a country, that's servely of interest. it's a very important thing in that country. as the times puts it tonight, this is one of the longest and biggest waves of protests in israeli history. that's of interest in an own terms in terms of that country. but it's also categorically of interest to us as americans.
i think because we do sometimes see tendencies, trends, patterns more easily in other countries than we can see them here at home. so, yes, for us i think it's relatively easy for us to see the similarities of this one effort in a far away country to have a political leader and his party take over a legal system. it's easy for us to see how similar that effort is to what the leader of hungary just did. viktor orban did this in hungary too, taking control of the courts and legal system. now in his country, there's no real legal system. it's just part of orban's consolidated power. it's sort of a paper tiger now. it's a system that exists only on paper that answers to him. rubber stamps whatever he wants, punishes his enemies.
whatever he wants them to do. and again, from a distance, it's easy for us to see in different countries the same pattern. from a distance, it's easy for us to see the thing people are protesting against in israel right now and the thing that just happened in hungary is similar to what the authoritarian leader of russia did. putin took power in russia in 1999, and right after he ate the independent judiciary for breakfast. he followed it up by eating the supposedly independent parliament for lunch. and now russia has neither of those things. neither an independent judiciary or independent parliament, and now russia is the kind of country where every significant opposition leader who's surfaced in any capacity in the past decade or more is either murdered, exiled, or imprisoned, or some combination of all three. you can't have an authoritarian government. an authoritarian cannot
achieve his full potential if you have an independent press, if you have an independent legal system, if you have an independent co-equal branch of government. what does it mean to be an authoritarian? by definition it means you get to do whatever you want. and so, as such, you can't abide there being any competing source of authority in your country. nobody else allowed to state the facts as they say them, no independent source of expertise, which is why they often go after academia, higher education. they can't abide anyone else in their country allowed to govern in any way, someone with any competing governing authority. they can't abide anyone else who's allowed to produce any form of criticism or oversight or accountability for the dear leader. that's how it works all over the world. that's why authoritarian
leaders look like they do the same thing in every country. it's because they do the same thing in every country. and what authoritarians and would be authoritarians try to get rid of these other important institutions in their society, institutions that provide these challenges to these, alternate sources of authority and credibility and truth. when authoritarians trying to get rid of those institutions, then the way you save your democracy and prevent yourself from becoming an authoritarian country is when the people of their country stand up for those institutions and protect them and don't let the leader take them over. and it's crucial you do it when they're first trying because once the independence of those institutions is gone, they're gone. here in the united states, we've watched over the past few years as our version of one of these guys has railed against and tried to
delegitimize everyone that's investigated him for anything. so the press is the enemy of the people. scum of the earth. it's all fake news, terrible people, don't believe any of them. the media is trying to kill you, and we should kill them first. or the fbi, right? conservatives i thought loved the fbi. no, no, now it's let's defund the fbi. let's arrest the fbi's leaders. the fbi full of monsters. the whole justice department. they're the enemy of the people too. they're corrupt. they're the gestapo. they're the embodiment of scandal. i mean, this is part of the same play book these guys all around the world all play from. nobody's allowed to criticize, tell the truth, investigate, and anyone that poses any threat to the dear leader, that person is to be attacked, delegitimized, taken over, killed off if possible.
we understand how this works. what we've been watching for next, though, is what comes after that. what's the act of furtherance beyond that. because it's one thing to come after and criticize and try to delegitimize entities that have investigated you. that's in fact something we've seen before from the hard right in the united states. at that republican women's convention in 1973 where they all got up on their chairs to cheer for spiro agnew. he told them the justice department was corrupt, he was coming for them, that he'd get the lousy rat s. of course they all criticize the entities that investigate them. but when he got indicted 11 days after the speech, he did resign. he showed up in court as he was commanded. he pled no contest. he resigned like he said he would in his plea agreement. yet, he criticized the legal
system. yes, he threatened. but when the weight of it came down on him, he followed the court's orders. he pled the way he said he would plea. the legal system stayed. the legal system stayed. what happens when the dear leader of the party decides that if the legal system will be used against the dear leader, then the legal system's got to go? what happens when you take it further? when you take it beyond criticizing the legal system, you take it beyond criticizing those who are investigating you and you instead decide the system's got to go? we know what this looks like in other countries. what does it look like here? would anyone try that here in the united states in our era, in our time? well, here's tonight. here's on the front page of the atlanta journal constitution right now as we
speak. quote, republicans demand oversight of prosecutors amid trump probe. here's part of the lead from report the reporter. the georgia house approved a measure to create a new state board that could punish or oust district attorneys. the latest step in an ongoing campaign. the measure passed the house today over the objections of democrats and prominent prosecutors, among them the fulton county district attorney who's leading an ongoing probe of donald trump. republicans have rallied around the overhaul as a way to reign in, quote, rogue prosecutors. powerful republicans have put it on the fast track. the georgia senate has passed a similar version of the legislation, and the overall effort is backed by both governor kemp and lieutenant governor burt jones. burt jones in georgia is one
of the people notified by the fulton county district attorney's office that he himself is a target for potential prosecution in the investigation into trump's efforts the throw out the election results in georgia and have election results in that state falsely declare him the winner. the lieutenant governor is facing potential charges himself in that investigation. he and at least one republican state senator who's also facing potential charges in that investigation, turns out they're strong supporters of this new measure that would give republicans in the legislature effectively the power to remove prosecutors that they don't like. facing criminal charges? how about you vote yourself the power to fire the person who's going to charge you? the former president himself, donald trump, as of today is urging republicans in georgia that they must pass this legislation. so republicans will have the power to remove prosecutors in
the middle of their investigations and in the middle of prosecuting any particular case republicans might not like for any reason. and to be clear, this has now passed the georgia legislature as of tonight. a version of the bill passed the state senate, and the house just passed it tonight. and the republican governor there says he will sign it. he's a strong supporter of this. so they're doing it. and i don't know, maybe this would be easier to see if it were happening in another country. and, you know, maybe the leader of their party is still going to face criminal charges in other jurisdictions where he's under criminal investigation, like federally, or in new york state where he's under criminal investigation. maybe he will, maybe he won't. none of us know. but in the one place where he is under criminal investigation, and his party is in full control of the state government, they've just decided for the first time in the state's history, that it is within their own power to remove prosecutors in the
middle of their duties on their own say so. and, yes, this is a story about georgia, and yes, this is a story about trump, and the potential charges he's facing. but this is a whole new step for us as a country. this is a new thing for us as a democracy. this is not ranting against the investigators. we've seen that before. and calling people names, and even picking off individuals in the law enforcement system to try and turn them into enemies. as bad as that is, we've seen it all before. this isn't just verbally and politically delegitimizing the entities. those are bad things to do. but this is more. sticks and stones, right? but this is dismantling the way the legal system works so it will no longer work against him. this isn't a resolution denouncing a prosecutor who might bring charges against donald trump. this is giving republicans,
this is republicans voting to give themselves the power to remove a prosecutor that acts in the way they don't like as she's on the precipice of potentially bringing charges against him. this passed the georgia state legislature tonight and will soon be on its way to the governor. for georgia, yes, but for us as a country, this is a benchmark moment. this is new. joining us now is greg blustein. i know you're a reporter and not a columnist, and i'll not ask you to inveigh about it the way i am, but we'll just cover the facts. so first i'll ask you that i'm right in that it's kind of done. it's passed the senate, passed the house, and it's likely soon to be signed by the governor. >> it's not a done deal quite
yet. there are some minor disagreements over language, but it's fully expected to be a done deal within the next couple of weeks, and governor kemp is very likely to sign it. >> in terms of the effect that this would have, how quickly would something like this go into effect? i know in different states with different laws, there's different dates these go into force. it doesn't always matter in terms of new laws, but in a case like this where it may be motivated, the republicans don't say this is their motivated, but looking from the outside, it may be motivated by trying to remove this one prosecutor's ability to bring charges against trump and other prominent republican, it seems like the effective date of such a new law becomes pretty important. >> yeah, it would be expected to go into law later this year, but there's a number of implementation factors that come into play, including a new five-member panel that could either be appointed by the georgia supreme court or
republican leader themselves like the governor and lieutenant governor. so, you know, they still have to set up this panel, but it could certainly have an impact shortly in georgia law. >> was there any discussion about individual members of the legislature or someone like the lieutenant point of view no having, um lieutenant governor, um, having a conflict of interest or self-serving motive in a proposal like this given that so many prominent georgia republicans have been notified that they're targets for potential prosecution in this one investigation related to the 2020 election? >> that's a good question because state republicans have been very careful not to bring up the trump case. right? it's impossible to disentangle the investigation from the overall debate, but when state republicans bring up these measures, they bring up a number of other prosecutors around georgia who have been in hot water for misconduct and other grievances.
there's a district attorney in athens who's often invoked because she refuses to enforce drug offenses, low level drug offenses. they believe she's inept and ineffective as a prosecutor. there's also a white republican from west georgia, a former district attorney who pleaded guilty to misconduct charges and to step down, is he's often invoked. they're very careful not to bring up donald trump, but it's impossible to keep him out of the debate. >> and presumably there are rules in place in georgia like every other state to handle issues of prosecutorial misconduct and overreach. it's not like georgia has an unusual set up in its legal system where prosecutors are less accountable for things they legitimately do wrong compared to other states, right? >> that's exactly right. the district attorneys and democrats and other critics
note that there's already pieces embedded in georgia law that account for prosecutors when they overstep or when they're not doing their job. there's even an ability for the general assembly to impeach and oust prosecutors that's rarely used. i think it was last used in the 1960s. there's the georgia bar, the supreme court, there's the judiciary. there's a number of other steps that can be taken before creating this new panel. so critics of the measure say look, there's already parts of this embedded in georgia law. why aren't we using that? >> greg, thanks for much for helping us understand this. i'm surprised that this isn't a bigger national story, but it may just be a matter of counting down until people realize the seriousness of what's going on here. thank you for helping us understand it. >> thank you. >> again, the georgia state legislature tonight, both the senate and house, have passed legislation that will effectively give republicans in the legislature the power
to remove prosecutors that they don't like who are pursuing cases that they don't appreciate. this happening just as the fulton county district attorney willis approaches her own decision about whether or not to recommend indictments against multiple georgia prominent republicans who have been identified that they're potential targets of her investigation and also former president trump. we talk about the rule of law and accountability issues embedded in trump's potential legal liability all the time. this is effectively a dismantling of the judicial system in one state in an effort that seems, i think it's inarguable seems designed to dismantle the the legal system rather than allow him to be subject to it. just astonishing. this is new. we'll be right back.
♪ a beach house, a treehouse, ♪ ♪ honestly i don't care ♪ find the perfect vacation rental for you booking.com, booking. yeah. >> tech: when you have auto glass damage, trust safelite. my customer really relies on his car's advanced safety system. booking. [alarm] >> instructor: veer right. [ringing] >> instructor: and slow down. >> tech: so when he got a cracked windshield, he turned to safelite. we're the experts at replacing glass and recalibrating your vehicle's camera, so automatic emergency braking and lane departure warning work properly to get you back on the road safely. >> instructor: and that means a lot! >> tech: schedule now. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ the virus that causes shingles is sleeping... in 99% of people over 50. and it could strike at any time. think you're not at risk? wake up. because shingles could wake up in you. if you're over 50, talk to your doctor or pharmacist about shingles prevention. when it was time to sign up for a medicare plan mom couldn't decide. but thanks to the right plan promise
from unitedhealthcare she got a medicare plan expert to help guide her with the right care team behind her. the right plan promise only from unitedhealthcare. a lot of new dry eye patients in my office tell me about their frequent dry eyes, which may point to dry eye disease. millions of americans were estimated to have it. they also tell me they've tried artificial tears again and again, but the relief is temporary. xiidra can provide lasting relief. xiidra treats the signs and symptoms of dry eye disease. don't use if allergic to xiidra. common side effects include eye irritation, discomfort or blurred vision when applied and unusual taste sensation. why wait? ask your eye doctor about a 90-day prescription for xiidra today.
♪ ♪ ♪ get directv with a two year price guarantee. everything's changing so quickly. before the xfinity 10g network,
we didn't have internet that let us play all at once. every device? in every room? why are you up here? when i was your age, we couldn't stream a movie when the power went out. you're only a year older than me. you have no idea how good you've got it. huh? what a time to be alive. introducing the next generation 10g network. only from xfinity. the future starts now.
in 1970, a 22-year-old woman named judy humann applied for a license to teach school in new york city. she passed the written exam, she passed the oral exam to get the license, but the board of education nevertheless turned her down, specifically
because she used a wheelchair. judy had gotten polio when she was 18 months old. she spent months in an iron lung. she survived polio, but also had to use a wheelchair for the rest of high pressure life. so she faced not just challenges and difficulties, she faced discrimination because of it. when she was five years old, her mom tried to sign her up for kindergarten, and the principal turned her down saying judy was a fire hazard. that was basically the same excuse she got from the board of education as an adult when she tried to become a teacher. but in 1970 when they said no, you're otherwise qualified, but you can't be a teacher, judy sued the board of education in new york and won. she became the first teacher ever who was a wheelchair user, and that court fight was the first ever disabilities
civil rights case ever brought in court. and she won it. judy knew how to fight, and she knew what it took to win even the most difficult fights. and she did it over and over and over again. in 1973, richard nixon had signed a law that said any organization that got federal funding could discriminate against disabled people. that meant schools at all levels, that meant hospitals, that meant the government itself. now, that law was signed in 1973, but then when it came to enforcing that law, there needed to be regulations signed and regulations put in place. and when it came to enforcing that law and having the regulations, hospitals and schools complained about
having to put in ramps or accessible bathrooms. and so, um, disabled activists realized the law was on the books, but the regulations implementing the law were not on the books, and it was time for the government to actually do what the law required them to do. to actually implement this piece of civil rights legislation. and judy heumann among them, they started demonstrating at federal buildings across the country. and they organized demonstrations at, um, the federal agency responsible for the regulations in washington and at the regional offices for the agency all over the country. the protest organized by judy was in san francisco, and that actually ended up being the biggest and longest peaceful occupation of a u.s. federal building in u.s. history. more than 100 disabled activists stayed there for four weeks straight. they didn't have hot water, they didn't have beds, many of
them didn't have access to medicine they needed. week after week, they stayed, demanding to be heard, demanding the regulations go into place to implement the civil rights legislation until finally the leaders of the agency agreed to meet with them. and in the meeting, judy heumann raised a signal point from another movement in american history. >> i can tell you that every time you raise issues of separate but equal, the outrage of disabled individuals across this country is going to continue. it is going to be ignited. there will be more takeovers of buildings. until finally maybe you begin to understand our position. we will no longer allow the government to oppress disabled individuals. we want the law enforced.
we want no more segregation. we will accept no more discuss of segregation. and i want appreciate it if you would stop shaking your head in agreement when you don't understand what we are talking about. >> judy heumann taught the world what she and her fell he activists were talking about. their willingness toshowup and stay there worked she. she knew how to win big, difficult to win fights. that fight in 1977 won this country's first real protections for people with disabilities. and it laid the groundwork for civil rights legislation to come. in 1990, judy was instrumental in getting the americans with disabilities act signed into law. the rehabilitation act was
about schools and the government. the ada extended the same civil rights protections to private entities. anyone with sort of public accommodation. people with disabilities need to be able to access the things that other citizens can access, and reasonable accommodation for their needs to do so is a matter of civil rights. judy heumann then served in government herself, in both the clinton administration and in the obama administration. this is from the head of the american association of people with disabilities. quote, judy really helped people accept who who were as disabled people and take pride in that identity. more simple as judy put it in her memoir. some say what i did changed the world, but really i simply refused to accept what i was told about who i could be, and i was willing to make a fuss about it. i was willing to make a fuss
about it. words to live by. because judy was willing to make that fuss, life not just here, but in so many countries, is better. it's one thing to fight for yourself, but it's another to fight for yourself in a way that leaves the country and the world better off not only for you and people like you who come after you, but literally for the people who you fought and won the argument against and who you prevailed over in the fight for civil rights. judy is often called the mother of the disabilities rights movement. she died this weekend at the age of 75. sorry. judy heumann dead at the age of 75. we'll be right back. strong, knock it out with vicks dayquil severe. just one dose starts to relieve 9 of your worst cold and flu symptoms. to help take you from 9 to none. power through with vicks dayquil severe. so cozy. how many rooms are in there?
should we go check it out? yeah. we get to stay here all weekend! when you stay at a vrbo... i call doing the door code! ...the host doesn't stay with you. it looks exactly like the picture. because without privacy in your vacation home... it's a full log cabin guys. ...it isn't really a vacation... we can snuggle up by the fire. ...is it? wow, oh my- [birds chirping] hi, i'm katie. i live in flagstaff, arizona. i'm an older student. i'm getting my doctorate in clinical psychology. i do a lot of hiking and kayaking. i needed something to help me gain clarity. so i was in the pharmacy and i saw a display of prevagen and i asked the pharmacist about it. i started taking prevagen and i noticed that i had more cognitive clarity. memory is better. it's been about two years now and it's working for me. prevagen. at stores everywhere without a prescription.

with a majority of my patience with sensitivity,
i see irritated gums and weak enamel. sensodyne sensitivity gum & enamel relieves sensitivity, helps restore gum health, and rehardens enamel. i'm a big advocate of recommending things that i know work. ♪♪ alex! mateo, hey how's business? great. you know that loan has really worked wonders. that's what u.s. bank is for. and you're growing in california? -yup, socal, norcal... -monterey? -all day. -a branch in ventura? that's for sure-ah. atms in fresno? fres-yes. encinitas? yes, indeed-us. anaheim? big time. more guacamole? i'm on a roll-ay. how about you? i'm just visiting. u.s. bank. ranked #1 in customer satisfaction with retail banking in california by j.d. power.
you'll remember some of these pictures. 2017, they held rallies on the side of the road. they handed out missing persons signs about senators who refused toshowup and answer questions. in one memorable instance, someone in a chicken suit led a group of protesters through the chicken dance outside a congressman's office in the rain, which honestly makes everything look way more fun. in the wake of the 2016 election, when republicans learned that they would have control of the house and the senate and they took the white house, a pair of former democratic congressional staffers started up a google
doc for strategy in that era. they typed up this kind of instruction manual for how people opposed to what trump and the republicans wanted to do, how those people could most effectively put pressure on congress, and the key was your best route to effectively pressuring congress is to only pressure your member of congress. whether your member of congress and your senators are good, bad, or somewhere in between, you target them because they have to listen to you when you are their constituent. they called that google doc the indivisible guide. notes on how to interact directly with your member of congress is on page 121. indivisible ballooned quickly from a guy in a chicken suit to a full-fledged, well
organized, grass roots progressive movement. by the time the trump administration was only a few weeks old, there were over 7,000 different indivisible groups organized in different states. now it's 2023, and again the republicans have control of the house of representatives, and that's breathed new life into the kind of grass roots organizing that launched indivisible so effectively back in 2017. and so, now, for 2023, there is an updated indivisible guide. and just like the first one, it's very, very, very nuts and bolts. it's practical, actionable advice. check this out. this was a joint protest held by indivisible members and members of the working families party who live in new york republican congressman mike lawler's district. you can see from the signs they're protesting the very, very unpopular republican proposals to cut medicare and cut social security.
and what mike lawler's constituents are doing here tracks with the advice from the new indivisible guide. page 13. what to do if you have a republican member of congress. step one, focus on their unpopular ideas and relentlessly tie them to their least appealing positions or controversies. the guide goes on to say you should use every possible opportunity to get your member of congress on the record on those issues. and, true to form, just as the indivisible guide predicted, in response to that protest, congressman lawler had to go on the record and release an on the record statement to a local news outlet saying that he opposes any cuts to social security and medicare. there it is in black and white. they got him on the record. congressman lawler now on the record opposing cuts to the programs. that's a form of progress in trying to save those programs. indivisible has now, in march, launched a new campaign targeting 18 republican
members of congress, including mike lawler, who represent districts that president biden won in the 2020 election. so they are republican members, but their district voted for biden. the reason those 18 are being targeted in the new campaign is because practical as ever, indivisible believes that's the start of the road for democrats to take back the house in 2024. you start with picking off those 18, and then you move on from there. joining us now is ezra levin, cofounder of indivisible who's joined us from time to time to talk about the group and how the approach is working in our guided and easily distracted society. ezra, it's nice to see you. thanks for being here. >> great to see you,rachel. >> was that an appropriate way to describe the trajectory that there's a new indivisible guide for 2023, it's specific to the fact that republicans are in control of the house, and it's about sort of
protecting progressive priorities, but also trying to orient democrats toward taking back control of the house as soon as possible? >> gosh,rachel, you did such a good job i'll struggle to add to it, but i'll try. and that is this. we really have, i'm not shy about it. we have a top level goal. i'd like to see us retake the house, hold the senate, hold the presidency, reform the filibusterer, codify roe. that's my north star, that's the north star of indivisibles all throughout the country. the theory is exactly as you laid out. we're not taking every single one of the 435 house districts in 2024. that's not the pathway to victory. the pathway to victory is where is the low hanging fruit, and it turns out, just as you said, there are 18 republican members of congress who represent districts that biden won in 2020. so what do you do in those districts? how do you take on these folks? there's this guy mike lawler,
i'll go out on a limb and say probably 99% of people haven't heard of representative mike lawler. they've heard of marjorie taylor-green, why not mike lawler? it's because he represents a biden won district and he knows he has one path to re-election, and that is, you've got to raise a whole bunch of money from donors, you have to vote more or less the way the donors want you to vote. he votes 94% of the time with marjorie taylor-green, and you have to convince your constituents you're not one of the bad guys in congress. that means keeping your constituents in the dark. trying not to say you vote 94% of the time with marjorie taylor-green. the good news is sunlight is the best disinfectant, and the
constituents in that district were able toshowup and say, you have to side with us. and we were able to help limit the harm from this member of congress. we're going to try and do that in every single one of the districts. sometimes we'll get them to go on the record, sometimes they'll vote against us. so it's up to the constituents to hold them accountable and make sure there's a price to pay for their extremism. >> over the past six years you've been involved in this organizing effort that started small and turned into this big thing, dowless feel like there are big lessons learned in terms of what works, what's effective, and things you thought might work but didn't and things that have been more effective than you thought. >> we always say pictures or it didn't happen. you can call your representative, 1 of the 18, and they'll have a staffer taking down your message saying we're really concerned
with what you have to stay. but if that doesn't go anywhere, there will be no accountability. so seeing what the constituents actually did in the districts to get local attention. they got local press coverage of their event, they got him on the record. so as much as possible, i do think it's important to lean into public pressure. that's what a member of congress running in the district really cares about. if you're in district, you can connect with other local groups doing this work and do the work in real time. if you're out of district, we are working to connect folks out of district to support real constituents in the district. so i hope everybody knows that it doesn't mean you've got to be in the district to be supportive of this effort. we think everybody has a role to play, and that's what we're trying to do. we're trying to empower everybody to make sure congress is truly
representative. >> ezra levin, cofounder of indivisible doing some of the most practical work in the country. great to see you as always. >> thank you. >> we'll be right back, stay with us. with a majority of my patience with sensitivity, i see irritated gums and weak enamel. sensodyne sensitivity gum & enamel relieves sensitivity, helps restore gum health, and rehardens enamel. i'm a big advocate of recommending things that i know work. ♪ ♪ start your day with nature made. the #1 pharmacist recommended vitamin and supplement brand. hey, man. you could save hundreds for safe driving with liberty mutual. they customize your car insurance. so you only pay for what you need!
whoo! we gotta go again. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ love you. have a good day, behave yourself. like she goes to work at three in the afternoon and sometimes gets off at midnight. she works a lot, a whole lot. we don't get to eat in the early morning. we just wait till we get to the school. so, yeah. right now here in america, millions of kids like victoria and andre live with hunger, and the need to help them has never been greater. when you join your friends, neighbors and me to support no kid hungry, you'll help hungry kids get the food they need. if we want to take care of our children, then we have to feed them. your gift of just $0.63 a day, only $19 a month at helpnokidhungry.org right now will help provide healthy meals and hope. we want our children to grow and thrive and to just
not have to worry and face themselves with the struggles that we endure. nobody wants that for their children. like if these programs didn't exist me and aj, we wouldn't probably get lunch at all. please call or go online right now with your gift of just $19 a month. and when you use your credit card, you'll receive this limited edition t-shirt toshowyou're part of the team that's helping feed kids and change lives. if you're coming in hungry, there's no way you can listen to me teach, do this activity, work with this group. so starting their day with breakfast and ending their day with this big, beautiful snack is pretty incredible. whether kids are learning at school or at home, your support will ensure they get the healthy meals they need to thrive. because when you help feed kids, you feed their hopes, their dreams, and futures. kids need you now more than ever. so please call this number right now to join me in helping hungry kids or go online to
helpnokidhungry.org and help feed hungry kids today. for copd, ask your doctor about breztri. breztri gives you better breathing, symptom improvement, and helps prevent flare-ups. breztri won't replace a rescue inhaler for sudden breathing problems. it is not for asthma. tell your doctor if you have a heart condition or high blood pressure before taking it. don't take breztri more than prescribed. breztri may increase your risk of thrush, pneumonia, and osteoporosis. call your doctor if worsened breathing, chest pain, mouth or tongue swelling, problems urinating, vison changes, or eye pain occur. if you have copd ask your doctor about breztri.
after years of residents calling for the renaming of one of south florida's most well known roads, the dixie highway in 2021 finally became the harriet tubman highway instead. well, as of today, you can take the harriet tubman
highway to get to another newly named major road in miami-dade county. you can take it to justice ketanji brown jackson street. the supreme court justice today made her first appearance back in her home state today since being sworn into the court. >> i hope that this street naming will also serve as a testament to what is possible in this great country. >> that was today in miami-dade county, florida. more to come tonight, stay with us. i say, “so are they.” just one aleve. 12 hours of uninterrupted pain relief. aleve who do you take it for? ♪
♪ ♪ get directv with a two year price guarantee. realtor.com (in a whisper) if we use kevin's college fund, we can afford this house. the house whisperer! this house says use realtor.com to find options within your budget. good luck young man. realtor.com to each their home. heading on a family trip? nah, sorry son, prices are crazy, [son deflates] awh, use priceline. they have package deals no one else has. [son inflates] we can do it! ♪go to your happy price♪ ♪priceline♪ when you have chronic kidney disease. there are places you'd like to be. like here. and here. and here. not so much here. if you've been diagnosed with chronic kidney disease
farxiga reduces the risk of kidney failure which can lead to dialysis. farxiga can cause serious side effects including dehydration, urinary tract or genital yeast infections in women and men, and low blood sugar. ketoacidosis is a serious side effect that may lead to death. a rare life-threatening bacterial infection in the skin of the perineum could occur. stop taking farxiga and call your doctor right away if you have symptoms of this bacterial infection, an allergic reaction, or ketoacidosis. and don't take it if you are on dialysis. put yourself in the driver's seat. make an appointment to ask your doctor for farxiga for chronic kidney disease. if you can't afford your medication, astrazeneca may be able to help. ♪far-xi-ga♪ as a business owner, your bottom line is always top of mind. so start saving by switching to the mobile service designed for small business: comcast business mobile. flexible data plans mean you can get unlimited data or pay by the gig. all on the most reliable 5g network.
with no line activation fees or term contracts. saving you up to 60% a year. and it's only available to comcast business internet customers. so boost your bottom line by switching today. comcast business. powering possibilities. i screwed up. mhm. i got us t-mobile home internet. now cell phone users have priority over us. and your marriage survived that? you can almost feel the drag when people walk by with their phones. oh i can't hear you... you're froze-- ladies, please! you put it on airplane mode when you pass our house. i was trying to work. we're workin' it too. yeah! work it girl! woo! i want to hear you say it out loud. well, i could switch us to xfinity. those smiles. that's why i do what i do. that's it for us tonight, now that and the paycheck. it's time for the last word. the great jonathan capehart is in for lawrence tonight. good evening jonathan, it's