>> all right, that is all in for this evening. guess what, folks, a special tuesday edition of therachelmaddowshowwrites starts right now, good eveningrachel. >> i did not mean to blindside you with the fact that i was going to be here on tuesday night this week. when i said that last night during our coverage, you reacted like i shocked you, like i -- >> my head around -- >> what -- >> i like to keep it spicy, when [inaudible] you get to that last line on the prompter. but i was very excited. to be honest, as a fan, i just got a little -- i was a little psyched. i said, i'm curious about what rachael has to say about all this tomorrow. >> well, now that i know that you like to keep it a little -- i don't know, to the. and one of these times i'm gonna sneak into your prompter and i'm going to put on vanilla ice. >> like anchorman, i will read anything. >> you are so tempting me, man. it will happen. thank you my friend.
appreciate it. and thanks at-home for joining us this hour. happy to have you here. you are getting more of me than you bargained for this week, i'm sorry. if everything goes as planned -- which honestly is basically never, in the news business, but you can't break your plans unless you make them in the first place, if all goes as planned, i will be here tonight hosting therachelmaddowshowand tomorrow night as well, and my usual time of 90 am eastern, hosting therachelmaddowshowtuesday night tonight, winds and a tomorrow. and then thursday night, i will be here as well, with an all-star team of all of my msnbc colleagues. because thursday night we expect to be doing another primetime recap of the january 6th hearing that is going to be happening during the workday on thursday this week. so, we will see. right? hi tonight, hi tomorrow night as well, my usual 9 pm eastern time. and then big special coverage starting at 8 pm eastern thursday night, after the next
january 6th hearing. that is the plan. and the only reason we make plans is so that there is something to break when the news gods event inevitably throw a stand curveballs at once and the plans have to be thrown out the window. we will see how it works out. but that is the plan. and i'm glad to be here. there's a lot going, on a lot to be watching tonight, as my friend chris hayes was just hovering covering on hisshow, we've got eyes on this surprise development on possible gun safety reforms. last week, i think the whole country was pretty skeptical and it was announced that democrats led by senator chris murphy had persuaded enough republican senators that they might, potentially, be able to pass a modest package of gun reforms, not only through the house but through the senate. republicans over the course of this past generation have not become just hard-liners, not just absolutists, but sort of maximalist when it comes to the policy issue of how many guns there ought to be on the streets in the country and how
many guns americans ought to have access to. i mean, i don't know why this has stuck with me and it has not stop with anyone else. i'm going to keep saying it and hope it sticks with someone else someday. do you remember -- i think we ought to remember what the republicans did first, the last time they won full control of the u.s. government. this was january 2017. so, it's after trump won the white house and republicans win control of the house in the senate. they've got control of all those branches of government. the very first substantive thing they did, the very first real action republicans took in congress was, what? they changed -- they changed gun laws to literally, i kid you not, to literally make it easier for people to obtain firearms if they had been formerly adjudicated to be mentally ill. seriously, that was the first substantive thing that republicans did the last time they got full control of the government.
they set to work on the grave problem that people formerly adjudicated to be mentally ill were not having an easy enough time getting access to guns. so, they fixed that as their first order of business, as soon as they got power. given that recent history, i think if he's understandable that there was considerable skepticism all across the country, about the idea that ten republican senators and all the democratic senators would agree on some package of gun related reforms, that they would all agree should pass. that said, lo and behold, maybe we skeptics were wrong. today, the leader of the republicans in the senate, senator mitch mcconnell called out [inaudible] and said he too supports this modest back judge of gun reforms, which would imply that it is not going to be just ten republicans that support it, if their leader is supporting it. that means it could be a whole bunch of them, certainly enough to get it passed.
we have all been burned to many times on this issue to actually believe this before we see it in action. but honestly, this announcement today, by the republican senate leader, mitch mcconnell, it's not nothing. after decades of nothing from republicans, as the gun massacres have just piled up, maybe this new announcement from the republican side in the senate -- maybe this isn't exactly nothing? but we shall see, when it comes time to actually vote on something. caveat am tour, buyer beware, but we shall see. this may be the first not nothing we've had in decades. we've also got eyes tonight on primary races. some interesting ones are happening tonight in maine, nevada, north dakota and south carolina. there is also really confusing special election for congressional seat in texas tonight. but just for somebody to hold that seat until january in and that seat will be up for a different kind of contest, the
texas special elections tonight is a very twist-y cone of soft ice cream. in terms of understanding the immediate implications of how that election is going to go. but there are primaries in these other four states -- nevada, south carolina, maine, north dakota. most of the focus tonight has been on south dakota. in south carolina there to incumbent republican members of congress who are facing republican primary challengers backed by former president trump. so, that's worth watching, for sure, in terms of the overall balance of power in the house, ultimately, but also the power of trumpism, not going away, in the republican party. they are going to get results from the races, from the great steve kornacki, as he's monitoring those results for us tonight from his patented big board. steve, we will see you in just a few minutes. speaking of the former president and his influence over the modern republican party, today, you should know, is the former presidents
birthday, donald trump's turns 76 years old today. as the world's worst birthday president for a former president, the new york state court system inform former president trump and his son don and his daughter even ankara that they all three mustshowup and give sworn testimony in a civil case that is being pursued against the trump family business by new york's tierney general, tish james. former president trump and his family had been pushing very hard and -- to avoid having to personally testify in this case. you might remember when eric trump, the other son, the blond one, was compelled to testify in this same case last fall, that the new york attorney general says that eric trump, in that deposition, pled the fifth. he invoked his fifth amendment rights against self incrimination more than 500 times in response to more than 500 different questions. he took the fifth. so, yeah, as of today, per the new york state courts, the eldest trump sun, not the blond
one, and ivanka and former president trump, they are all going to have to give sworn testimony nestle case next month. if you want to set your alarm for the inevitable public meltdown as that testimony approaches -- right now it's on the books for july 15th. so, one month from tomorrow. happy birthday, see you in court. and it's interesting, thinking about sworn depositions from the former president and more of his kids, in that case, which really does threaten the existence of the trump family business. one of the things that just keeps becoming newly relevant, over and over again, about the former president, about this question of whether he will be president again, his continuing hold on the republican party, his efforts to transform that party into an anti democracy sort of authoritarian force. the question of whether he will face state criminal charges in georgia or federal criminal charges. indeed, the question of whether
he may lose his family business in the civil fraud case in new york, the question of whether he will succeed in overturning future u.s. elections the way he tried to overturn the last one. on and on and on. as we continue to confront all these questions, one of the things that seems, i think, small at the start, of our understanding of him as a public figure -- but it just newly-keeps becoming relevant, for all these important questions about the future of our country, there is this fact that we keep coming back around to. which is that trump likes weird lawyers. he likes lawyers who put a little extra hot sauce on everything they do, he likes weird lawyers who do their jobs, not like normal lawyers. of course, we have a real focus on that at the moment, with rudy giuliani, and a whole day of news coverage today as to whether or not mr. giuliani is even still denying that he was ostentatiously drunk when he
reportedly advised president trump to go out and declare victory on election night even though trump had lost. mr. giuliani has logged his law license suspended in new york. he may be about to lose his law license in washington d.c. as well. mr. giuliani is trump's kind of lawyer. but he is not an outlier in terms of the kind of lawyer that trump chooses. this is a former president who is in more legal trouble than any american president has ever been before, by a factor of 10,000. but he likes lawyers like rudy giuliani. he likes consistently lawyers who approach their work, say, like this -- >> so, i'm warning you, tread very bleep lightly. because when i'm going to do to you is going to be bleep disgusting. do you understand? don't think you can hide behind your pant because it's not going to happen. >> even before rudy giuliani became the highest profile
trump lawyer in the country, now is longtime trump lawyer michael cohen, who of course was convicted of multiple felonies, who has since had a 180 turnover ground in his life. he's now diametrically opposed to all things donald trump. he has, in fact, apologized for threatening that reporter. but what i am going to do to you is going to be effing discuss thing? right? when he was working for donald trump, that's how we talk to reporters. that's what trump was looking for from his lawyers. here's another gem from that crowd. >> his attorney, john dowd, has promised to appeal those convictions. this is the video i was talking about. cnbc caught up with mr. doud a short time ago. >> would you like to comment to cnbc? >> get the bleep out of here. that's what i've got for cnbc. >> wow! >> that's what i got for cnbc, yeah, take that!
rudy giuliani, now, with michael cohen before him, he got a [inaudible] effing disgusting. that's the guy who trump chose to be his lawyer for the mueller investigation, you might remember. he also hired this gentlemen to be one of his lawyers at his first impeachment. this was the trump lawyer who went to the floor of the house and made the argument out loud that trump shouldn't be impeached, obama should be impeached. this is the lawyer who made the argument that president obama is the real trader and he should be impeached, not trump. that was his defense of trump in 2020, impeach obama, four years after president obama had left office, which i am sure trump thought was also. he likes his lawyers with extra hawks of this, he actually hired that guy away from his law firm after the impeachment, he liked him so much. he brought him on as a trump white house lawyer. because that's what he likes as a lawyer. it turns out, though, that if you have really who trey tastes in terms of what he wants from
a lawyer -- you want the guy with a hair dye running down his head, somebody else threatening to do something effing disgusting to a reporter, running an impeach obama campaign from the floor of the house, four years after obama was out of office, while you are being impeached. if that is your taste in lawyers, well, you are also going to have to live with that being the character of the lawyers that you are up against when they all, inevitably, turn against you, just like everyone has who has ever worked with you or for you in any capacity. and so that, right now, is why we got these particularly pungent slashing criticisms from one of trump's kind of lawyers, from that man, eric herschmann, who he brought into the trump white house after his particularly bombastic performance as a trump impeachment defense lawyer. >> it was a combination of italians, germans, different things that had been floating around as to who is involved.
hugo chavez in the venezuelans, he has an affidavit from someone that says that he wrote a software, and [inaudible] something from the philippines. it's just all over the radar. i thought the dominion stuff was -- i never saw any evidence whatsoever saying those allegations. with a we're proposing, i, thought was knots. >> and i thought that the theory was also completely nuts. >> that's trump white house lawyer eric herschmann, part of his deposition testimony of the january 6th investigation. you can tell he's a trump lawyer because he's got a baseball bat behind him that says justice anna. that's exactly the kind of hot sauce that trump likes and a lawyer, right? but in this case, he's not defending trump anymore. he's not saying, impeach trump, no, go back in time unimpeachable maya! this time -- this time, he is taking apart what he depicts to the january 6th investigators as just the stupidity of his characterization, of some of
the farfetched claims of supposed fraud that the president wanted to use as an excuse for overthrowing the u.s. government. that testimony that we just saw -- that i just played here moments ago, we saw that testimony from him before today. but then this evening the january 6th investigators released a new statement from republican vice chair liz cheney. and she included at the end of her statement something else from trump lawyer eric herschmann. to get us ready for what's coming next. from the investigations next hour. >> in our next hearing on thursday, the select committee will examine president trump's relentless effort on january six, and in the days beforehand, to pressure vice president pence to refuse to count lawful electoral votes. as a federal judge, he's indicated, the slightly violated to federal criminal statutes. president trump had no factual basis for what he was doing. and he had been told it was illegal. despite this, president trump
lauded with a lawyer named john eastman. and others to overturn the outcome of the election on january 6th. to give you a sense of the gravity of these issues, here is a clip of one of president trump's own white house lawyers, eric herschmann, who talks to mr. eastman the day after men january six. >> it was the day after eastman, i don't remember, he called me, or he texted me, called me, wanted to talk with me. he said he couldn't reach others. and he started to ask me about something dealing with georgia, preserving something. potentially for up to appeal. and i said to him, are you out of your effing mind? i said i don't only want to
hear two words coming out of your mouth now on. orderly transition. -- any of you afterwards coming out of your mouth no matter what's, other than orderly transition, repeat those words to me. eventually he said, orderly transition. i said, good john. now i'm gonna give you the best free legal advice who are ever getting in your life. get a great effing criminal defense lawyer, you are going to need it. and then i hung up on him. >> that was released tonight by the january 6th investigation. get a great ethan criminal defense lawyer, you are gonna need it, and then i hung up on him. this is the best free legal advice you are ever getting in your life. note to self, you like to hire bombastic lawyers who talk like this, when they defend you? well they are also gonna talk like that when they decide they are not gonna defend you anymore because now they've come to believe you are part of a criminal enterprise, and they're willing to testify
about that under oath. the substance of what's mr. herschmann is sort of blustering at here though, with the bat over her shoulder to send home the points, the substance of what he's blustering at is a real thing. john eastman was another of this illustrious pantheon of trump lawyers, he really knows how to pick them. eastman has been litigating in federal courts, against subpoenas that he has received from the january six investigation. he has said in his litigation that he was acting as an attorney, to president trump. and there is such a thing as attorney client privilege, that's a real thing, it's prosecutors basically aren't allowed to see communication that happens between a person and their lawyer. a person isn't title between confidential legal advice that you can't keep secret from the government even in the face of a subpoena. that said, the attorney client privilege is not limitless. and in the case of trump and his lawyer john eastman, in the
litigation where eastman is trying to keep his communications and a document secrets. keep them away from investigators. a federal judge is ruled twice in recent weeks. that eastman has to hand over these communications and documents over to the investigation. you know he was acting as trump lawyer. even though there is such a thing as attorney client privilege, you can't use it to cover up a crime. you can't use it to keep secrets the evidence that's a lawyer and a client were actually planning crimes together. and a judge has ruled already that trump and eastman were making forth with the climbing. [laughs] and therefore eastman has to hand over his documents and communications because crime. because there is a crime fraud exception to the attorney client privilege, the judge believes that that is likely implicated in this case. that they were plotting a crime together, and therefore his
documents and communications have to be handed over to the investigation. and that is a very substantive thing for a federal judge to conclude. and that is why, eric herschmann, a classic trump lawyer language told the other trump lawyer john eastman, that he was gonna give him the best free legal advice wherever getting in your life, get a great stepping criminal defense lawyer, you are gonna need. it then hung up. that is why you are getting that between trump lawyers. and that also, what liz cheney was getting at in this little part of her intro, in the specific part of it. >> president trump's relentless effort on january 6th, and in the days beforehand, to pressure vice president pence to refuse to count lawful electoral votes. as a federal judge, has indicated, the slightly violated to federal criminal statutes. >> trump's effort on january 6th and the days beforehand, to pressure vice president pence, that he should refuse to count the electoral votes, likely
violated to federal criminal statutes. that is liz cheney saying that. -- federal judge. rolling president trump and his -- john eastman, likely violated to federal laws. when they pressured mike pence the way that they did. and what she specifically describing, you could check in on the judges ruling, are these two federal statutes. 18 u.s. coats, section 15 12 c, at 18 u.s. code section 371. in plain english that is obstruction of a official proceeding, and it's conspiracy to defraud the. united states and you know, there's been all this talk in the last, i hate people in the media doing media criticism but he's gonna say this because i feel like this is an issue that kind of needs to offense put around its kind of becoming blaine up into a bigger deal than. axios becomin there's been all this talk over the past few months by particularly in the past couple of days about whether or not the january 6th investigation,
at the end of their investigation, whether they are going to make formal referrals to the u.s. department of justice, about prosecuting crimes that the investigation has turned up. there's all this focus on whether or not all the members of the committee feel the same way about that issue, what they've said about whether they are going to issue criminal referrals or whether they will not issue criminal overalls. honestly, it's kind of moved. i mean, here tonight, in this video, released on twitter, congresswoman liz cheney is making criminal referrals. right? laying out the evidence, the committee, the investigation has been lying at the evidence that they have found potential crimes. they have named the federal statutes they believed were violated. and they have named the people who they say did it. that's a criminal referral, whether or not you write it down or you say it in the video that's posted online from the official twitter account of the january six investigation, that's it. when else do you want? this is the january 6th investigators serving the
volleyball over the net to federal prosecutors. >> as a federal judge has indicated, this likely violated to federal criminal statutes. president trump had no factual basis for what he was doing. and he had been told it was illegal. >> he had been told it was illegal. it was not based on any factual truth about the world, meaning he did it and he did it with corrupt intent, which means it's prosecutable, in the view of january 6th investigation vice republican congresswoman liz cheney. in terms of what happens next year, the next january 6th hearing is not going to be tomorrow. it's going to be thursday. and the thursday hearing is going to be about the pressure on vice president mike pence that he had to overturn the election. the original plan had been that there would be another hearing before that, there would be a hearing tomorrow about trump's efforts to use the justice department to force the
overthrow the government. that hearing, we are told, will still happen. by that has been delayed. they are basically going to skip that one for now. they are going to slow down and try to do two hearings a week instead of three hearing a week, it seems, and that honestly seems fine. do it at whatever pace you need to get it right. but with all the hearings we have got on deck, i think we now realize that, from the list of witnesses we are told to expect -- from the witnesses we've seen already, from the depositions we know have been taken, i think we can see, you are going to see a bit of the same pattern network, throughout. you are going to see trump lawyers and trump's kind of lawyer, guys like bill barr, who frankly, in bill barr's case, happily spread trump lies before and after the election, that democrats were perpetrating some kind of terrible shenanigans around the election. bill barr, who was as much of a problem on this issue in terms of making false claims about the election ahead of things really going to hell in a handbasket around january 6th -- bill barr, for all that he did wrong, specifically on this
issue, nevertheless, bill barr is bailing out on trump now and testifying under oath that everything trump was pushing to the public was ally and he knew is a lie. another trump lawyer, richard donahue, number two at the justice department after barr left, he was right there, along with bill barr, actually inserting himself into the process and making the justice department spend real resources investigating these made up, ridiculous on their face fraud claims, as if they were real things. richard donahue helping very much in that regard -- but in the end, nevertheless, bailing out when he was asked to do too much. and now richard donahue, as well, will be testifying under oath that everything trump was pushing was a lie and he knew it was a lie. lawyers like eric herschmann, the impeach obama trump white house lawyer to the end, he's now bailing out in testifying under oath that everything trump was pushing to the public was a lie. and he knew it was a lie. we are going to keep getting this. from more and more in them, on every aspect of the scene.
and every because it's the way that trump likes his lawyers, we are going to get it all with extra hot sauce. and extra bluster and extra swear words. and apparently, with referrals for federal criminal prosecution, live and out loud in realtime, as they roll out the evidence. and yes, it is getting through. again, i am allergic to media criticism, go up to the upper left corner of the country -- here's the anchorage daily news today, front page. trump's inner circle warned him election fraud claims were false. go to the upper right corner of the country -- here's portland, maine, the portland press herald, advisers told trump election fraud claims were false. go to the middle of the country. here's the detroit free press front page today -- aides warned trump to stop. here's the star tribune in minneapolis, minnesota. allies warned trump election claims were false. what you are seeing here is distilled. these are the headline versions
versions of what liz cheney is a spreading out, the [inaudible] so much ink and so much hot air has been skilled spilled. will this sink in? we look at across? it's getting across, people are getting. it's getting across the country it's clear as you can get it, thanks in part to trump's own taste in lawyers. and thanks them it's getting through with some extra sauce on it, which makes it even harder to miss. and there is more to come. stay with us. stay with us to help prevent bleeding gums, try saying hello gumwash with parodontax active gum health. it kills 99% of plaque bacteria and forms an antibacterial shield. try parodontax active gum health mouthwash. fishing helps ease my mind. it's kinda like having liberty mutual. they customize your car insurance, so you only pay for what you need. woah! look out! [submarine rising out of water] [minions making noise]
minions are bitin' today. (sung) liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. minions: the rise of gru, in theaters july 1st. so this is the meta portal plus. a smart video calling device that makes working from home, work. it syncs with your favorite vc apps so you'll never miss a meeting. and neither will she. meta portal, make working from home work for you. at adp, we use data-driven insights to design solutions to help you manage payroll, benefits, and hr today, so you can have more success tomorrow. ♪ one thing leads to another, yeah, yeah ♪ if you have age-related macular degeneration, there's only so much time before it can lead to blindness. but the areds 2 clinical study showed that a specific nutrient formula can help reduce the risk of dry amd progression. ask your doctor now about an areds 2 supplement.
♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ introducing the all-new infiniti qx60. take on your wild world in style. ♪ hey lily, i need a new wireless plan for my business, but all my employees need something different. oh, we can help with that. okay, imagine this. your mover, rob, he's on the scene and needs a plan with a mobile hotspot. we cut to downtown, your sales rep lisa has to send some files, like asap!
so basically i can pick the right plan for each employee. yeah i should've just led with that. with at&t business. you can pick the best plan for each employee and get the best deals on every smart phone. you can pick the best plan for each employee before discovering nexium 24hr to treat her frequent heartburn... claire could only imagine enjoying chocolate cake. now, she can have her cake and eat it too. nexium 24hr stops acid before it starts for all-day, all-night protection. can you imagine 24 hours without heartburn? at xfinity, we're constantly innovating. and we're working 24/7 to connect you to more of what you love. we're bringing you the nation's largest gig speed network. available to more homes than anyone else. and with xfi complete, get 10x faster upload speeds. tech upgrades for your changing wifi needs. and advanced security at home and on the go to block millions of threats. only from us... xfinity. >> he everyone congresswoman

mace here, i'm in front of trump tower today. in 2015, the president trump announced his run, i was one of his earliest supporters if you want to lose the seat once again in the midterm election cycle to democrats, then my opponent is more than qualified to do just that. >> notice sort of the air of sadness about that video. this was south carolina republican congressman nancy mace earlier this year she recorded sort of sad slightly gravelling campaign video, while she sat outside trump tower, in new york city. the air of sadness there is because that was the day after former president trump had endorsed not her. former president trump had endorsed primary were potent. and when you heard nancy may say in that video that she was one of trump's earliest supporters, that's true. 26 and she was the coalition
and feel directed for trump's 2016 presidential campaign. she was one of the very few early paid staffers on that campaign. when she went on to win a seat in the south carolina state legislator two days later in 2018. this was the headline in -- nazi may's guest got south carolina legislator it's for a state lawmaker with clear ties to trump. but then there were some minor league fraying threads on those ties. when trump white house advisor steve bannon defied a subpoena in the january six investigation. nancy mace was one of the members of congress that said bannon should be held in contempt. she also just publicly voiced dismay about the events of january six themselves. and you wouldn't think either of those things is a cardinal sin but apparently those things were enough to get her a trump backed primary challenge for her seat in congress in south carolina. that election has been held today. in south carolina. we're gonna get results thus far on that from steve kornacki
who is all over this tonight, he is standing by. you should also know though that trumpy but not trump enough republican congresswoman nancy mace is not the only one who is up against this particular kind of wall tonight. south carolina republican congressman tom rice is another one. he was one of ten republican members of congress who actually voted to impeach trump for his role in trying to overturn the government with the january 6th attack. that boat from tom rice was a surprise. but it was enough to earn rice a trump backed republican challenger in south carolina. let's check in on both of these races with the great steve kornacki at his big board. steve how is it looking for these two incumbents tonight? >> in a word for tom rice, graham. this is where things stand with three quarters of the vote counted. he is running far behind his donald trump backed challenger state legislator russell fry. the key here is south carolina does have a 50% rule. you've got to get 50% in the preliminary or it goes to a
runoff with the top to advancing. if i does not hit 50%, this will advance to a runoff in two weeks. we have been watching this by number tick up and up, and up. as more votes have come in, let meshowyou what's gonna basically decide this way. now he is up 49.4%. he's gotta get the 50% plus one. if he does, that he went out right, and bice is done. where we are waiting for the most votes continues to be the biggest parts of this district. this is horry county. half the voters in here. this is myrtle beach, this is conway, this is the mother lode of votes in this district. and you see that by is running i think this is critical, he is running over 50% in the biggest part of this district. right now. so what they are counting up right now mainly, are the same day votes, the folks who went out and voted in person today. and by is doing a bit better with those voters that he did with the mail that it ballots, then what he did with the early votes that were counted up earlier. so there's a definite
opportunity for fire with a lot of those still to be counted. same day votes to be counted, here in horry county, where he's already running at 51%. 51.2%. there is definitely an opportunity for fight to get over 50% into wind that this thing outright tonight. even if he falls short, and rice ends up in a runoff, take a look at the roster of other republicans who are in this race. basically, all of them have also condemned rice's vote to impeach donald trump. has said it inspired their candidacy, et cetera. so far it goes into a runoff with price, he's gonna start with a giant lead from tonight, and there is the potential there coalesce a lot of the other support from the other candidates. because they've all condemned rights as well. that's a story in south carolina seven. in south carolina. one about half the vote is in right now. a closer contest. nancy mace is leading right now. the margin is about six points. there is a geographic split that is emerging in this race right now. you are basically saying in charleston county, big chunk of
charleston but not all of it, is in this district, mrs. cleaning up. you can take a look in berkeley county, arrington has the advantage there brunelle. big thing that i think is gonna decide this potentially, buford county, this is down where hilton head is, health and that island is. no votes yet from beaufort county, big chunk of this district, it looms as a potentially decisive right now. but airing tin trailing made by 6%. makes in quite a fight there. very very close at this hour rice, to be done for. good >> fascinating, and we got a lot of vote it but certainly not a determined about. this is gonna be adjusting to watch down to the wire. msnbc steve kornacki, that's why we got you here for, thank you very much my, friend we will be checking back with you. in the meantime got much more to get to, tonight to stay with us. to stay wit us ring drumbeat. discovering the virtues of a wandering mind. conflict and climate change. a new black dream. the hidden melodies of trains. the sacred spell of words.
this art was looted. the power of a dinner table. a country on the brink. carving a path through the heart of philadelphia. a story of love and obsession. affirmations, etched in vinyl. funny how the universe works. while wayfair is installing your new refrigerator and hauling away your old one. you're binging the latest true crime drama. while the new double oven you financed is taking care of dinner and desert. you're remembering how to tie a windsor. and while your washer is getting out those grass stains. you're practicing for the big leagues! for all of life's moments get the brands you trust to get the job done at wayfair. ♪ wayfair you've got just what i need ♪ what can i du with less asthma? with dupixent, i can du more... crazy commutes... crowd control- have a nice day alex
(thanks ms. ellen) ...taking the stairs. that's how you du more with dupixent, which helps prevent asthma attacks. dupixent is not for sudden breathing problems. it's an add-on-treatment for specific types of moderate-to-severe asthma that can improve lung function for better breathing in as little as two weeks. and can reduce, or even eliminate, oral steroids. and here's something important. dupixent can cause allergic reactions that can be severe. get help right away if you have rash, chest pain, worsening shortness of breath, tingling or numbness in your limbs. tell your doctor about new or worsening joint aches and pain, or a parasitic infection. don't change or stop asthma medicines, including steroids, without talking to your doctor. are you ready to du more with less asthma? just ask your asthma specialist about dupixent. and, we're back! it's time to see which chew provides the longest-lasting flea and tick protection. bravecto's the big winner. 12 weeks of powerful protection, nearly 3 times longer than any other chew. bravo, bravecto! bravo!
i would definitely recommend the new sensodyne nourish to my patients. sensodyne nourish has a bio-active mineral action that nourishes and strengthens teeth. patients should act now to prevent sensitivity in the future. the new sensodyne nourish will help patients invest in healthier teeth. what's on the horizon? the answers lie beyond the roads we know. we recognize that energy demand is growing, and the world needs lower carbon solutions to keep up. at chevron, we're working to find new ways forward,
through investments and partnerships in innovative solutions. like renewable natural gas from cow waste, hydrogen-fueled transportation, and carbon capture. we may not know just what lies ahead, but it's only human... to search for it. ♪ ♪ dude, great ride! right? this silverado keeps me connected and in control. and this touchscreen is my command center. another cooperator. my command center... the 2022 silverado lt. find new control. find new roads. well-qualified buyers can get 1.9% financing on all 2022 silverado 1500 pickups. find new roads at your local chevy dealer.
now today another member of the pro trump right wing paramilitary group, the proud boys, pled guilty for his role in the january 6th attack, and also agreed to cooperate with prosecutors. this makes three now, three members of the so-called proud boys, who have pled guilty. one of those is cooperating and cooperating in the seditious conspiracy case, the justice department is brought against the group. there's also a seditious conspiracy case pending against the members of another proto-fascist, pro trump, paramilitary group called the oath keepers. seditious conspiracies is a specific, rarely charged, very
serious crime that the justice department has had a heck of a time in previous cases, proving it. the very few times it's ever been used in the u.s. criminal law. but one of the things we are learning from the indictments and from the court filings in the seditious cases, and in the public hearings for the january six investigation, is that these paramilitary groups were apparently, an important inter cold part of the plot to try to overthrow the government, to stop the certification of the last government. by using force inside the u.s. capitol. the january six investigators have laid out how hundreds of these proud boys march to the capital, hours before trump directed the crowd and his rally if they should go to the capitol. they started attacking police just as trump started sending the big mob their way. they were effectively the tip of the spear. they breached the capitol, and then the mob was there to roll and behind them. the chairman of the january six committee says that the
upcoming hearings, witnesses will describe conversations between these paramilitary groups that led the breach of the capitol and people in the orbit of that president trump. they are charged with sedition. and then there's him. these aren't the only fascist, right wing, paramilitary groups that are operating on the bleeding edge of right-wing politics bernal. just this past weekend for example, there was this. >> these guys stopped a u-haul full of dudes. >> a swarm of extremists who idaho police say, came to riot. 31 suspected white nationalist zip tight and arrested. blocks from a pride festival. >> they were each one smoking gun rights. there was multiple shields. >> -- described that a crowd in a u-haul after a caller described seeing a little army at a local hotel, with masks on their faces and slogans like reclaim america on their shirts. police charging all 31 with
conspiracy to riot noting they planned to swarm several parts of portland, and carried paperwork similar to an operations plan that a police or military group would put together. they traveled and from states all across the country allegedly united by white nationalism. >> they pray to be affiliated with the brutes patrick front. >> they call themselves patriots front. they have ridiculous little uniforms, you might recognize them by their distinctive matching khakis. which is supposed to be menacing instead of making it look like they all just got off work to get at best buy. but this was them in d.c. last year trying to intimidate with their little homemade shields and their j.d. soccer tension guards. this group is iranian version of one of the white nationalist groups that took part in the unite the real -- in 2017. the group renamed itself after one of its members killed heather hire, a counter protester, and seriously injured a ton of other people, when he deliberately drove his speeding car into a crowd.
and anti racist protesters. them targeting the pride event in quite a lane i'll idaho this weekend, one of the most unnerving things about the reporting on this, was that patriot brett was apparently not even the only armed far-right group, that was targeting that particular pride events and that particular part of idaho this weekend. another so-called patriot group, had planned ashowoff your gun event to coincide with a menace that same pride gathering in courts elaine. the same weekend a different group of proud boys stormed into a library and the scent for cisco bay area and it's up to the story children session, shouting anti, gay and anti-trans threats, because the story time was led by a drag queen, so they were there to break it up by force. you will notice that that targets of these various fascist pro trump melt paramilitary groups, like patriot front, oath keepers, proud boys, you'll notice that
their targets are the political targets of our current republican party. the paramilitary groups are providing physical attacks, the school intimidation, to reinforce political attacks. democrats, deep state actors are trying to steal the election. will these will be the gross that will be the tip of the spear that violent lay storm into the capital, to stop that. gay folks, trans folks, are going after our children. well these groups will storm part festivals, and supposedly objectionable children story groups, and men's people with weapons and with threats. they will put physical force behind the political threats from the republican party. there are historical and sociological reasons behind the existence of fascist, paramilitary, organizations in the united states. this is not our first rodeo with these people. but, it's a different thing altogether when paramilitary groups like this start playing a political function, act dunks, to one of the two major parties in our country. that is a very, very bad sign.
we'll have more on that next, stay with us. stay with us what if i sleep hot? ...or cold? no problem. the sleep number 360 smart bed is temperature balancing, so you both stay comfortable and can help you get 30 minutes more restful sleep per night. save 50% on the sleep number 360 limited edition smart bed. plus, 0% interest for 36 months. ends monday we hit the bike trails every weekend shinges doesn't care. i grow all my own vegetables shingles doesn't care. we've still got the best moves you've ever seen good for you, but shingles doesn't care. because 1 in 3 people will get shingles, you need protection. but, no matter how healthy you feel, your immune system declines as you age increasing your risk for getting shingles. so, what can protect you? shingrix protects.
you can protect yourself from shingles with a vaccine proven to be over 90% effective. shingrix is a vaccine used to prevent shingles in adults 50 years and older. shingrix does not protect everyone and is not for those with severe allergic reactions to its ingredients or to a previous dose. an increased risk of guillain-barré syndrome was observed after getting shingrix. fainting can also happen. the most common side effects are pain, redness, and swelling at the injection site, muscle pain, tiredness, headache, shivering, fever, and upset stomach. ask your pharmacist or doctor about shingrix. shingles doesn't care. but you should. your heart is at the heart of everything you do. and if you have heart failure, there's entresto. entresto helps improve your heart's ability to pump blood to the body. don't take entresto if pregnant; it can cause harm or death to an unborn baby. don't take entresto with an ace inhibitor or aliskiren, or if you've had angioedema with an ace or arb. the most serious side effects are angioedema, low blood pressure, kidney problems, or high blood potassium. ask your doctor about entresto.
and, we're back! it's time to see which chew provides the longest-lasting flea and tick protection. bravecto's the big winner. 12 weeks of powerful protection, nearly 3 times longer than any other chew. bravo, bravecto! bravo! ♪ ♪ ♪
♪ introducing the all-new infiniti qx60. take on your wild world in style. ♪ hey businesses! take on your wild world you all deserve something epic! so we're giving every business, our best deals on every iphone - including the iphone 13 pro with 5g. that's the one with the amazing camera? yep! every business deserves it... like one's that re-opened! hi, we have an appointment. and every new business that just opened! like aromatherapy rugs! i'll take one in blue please! it's not complicated. at&t is giving new and existing business customers our best deals on every iphone. ♪ ♪ >> police tried to all 31 way
conspiracy to riot, noticing to plan several parts of quite a lane, and carry people work similar to an operations plan that a police or military group will put together. they traveled in from states all across the country allegedly united by white nationalism. >> they appear to be affiliated with the brute patriot front.
>> why are white nationalist targeting a pride parade? in idaho, or anywhere? historian kathleen blue is the author of bring the war home, the white power movement and paramilitary america, she's the expert on these kinds of movements. thank you for making time for us tonight. >> thank you for having me. >> so, i've learned a lot of what i know about white power groups, and this country, and paramilitary movements in this country from your scholarship. but i wanted to ask you about this impression that i have from recent news, from this edition indictments firm oath keepers and proud boys, for what we saw this weekend and idaho. i have the sense, this impression, that these groups are now operating sort of as an adjunct, to pretty close adjunct to what's happening in very right-wing electoral politics. they seem to be targeting the same targets at least that are being singled out by right-wing put republican politicians. that this unnerving to, me and i wanted to ask you if that stands out to you? >> i think that's very
concerning. and we don't know as much about that interface between mainstream politics and paramilitary white power, activism in the militant right, as we do about the fringe of the movement. but we do know is that these groups are inherently opportunistic and they are prepared to use any open window to recruit, and radicalize and implement violence. and this is worth mentioning that when we say the word white nationalists, sometimes people think that means overzealous patriotism, but for these activists, the nation they invasion is not the united states. it's a transnational group of white people. it is a white at no state. it's not the america defined by democracy and multiculturalism, multi racial identity, that is put the one that we love it. it is an imaginary, all white states. so this is a very extremist movement. it's drawing in people as you mention, from all over the country. and the reason that we are seeing so many of these stories at the same time, about oath keepers, patriot front, proud
boys, the january six hearings, all of these things are happening at the same time, because this is the story about any one of these groups. this is a story about a groundswell, and even though it appears to be disconnected of activism, it's meant to do that. what it is is a nationwide paramilitary army, that is prepared to do battle for its own purposes. now how much that can be wielded by the republican party even on the very french? i think is open to question. >> what do you make of the reports including from nbc news that after arresting these patriot front members and idaho, the actual police officers who arrested some of them, the police department are getting dots, and they are getting threatened. why are they threatening the police? >> this is the kind of a push poll and social media, there is often been an issue with overlap between some of these groups, and some people in law enforcement, and i would not paint that with one brush at all. but you know, quote elaine has a long history of dealing with these movements.
quite a lane was a sight of nations compound which is an epicenter for this activity in the 1980s. it was nearby that the headquarter -- for -- finneas priesthood, in the similar 90s. folks up there are not new to this. and they are very aware of how violence it can become and how dramatically it can impact their community. so i think, one thing that stands out to me about the law enforcement response, and the sort of emblem a ties in the dachshund, even structures of power are very much in the crosshairs of these kind of movements. there are other issues that people's homes being bombed, and quarter lane. of people being went off the road, people being harassed out of town. it goes on and on like this. bank robberies in nearby -- washington. these activists and the movement they come from, have done incalculable dal itch, in quarter lane overtime. >> kathleen bloom, the author
of bring the war home, the white power movement and color military america, which is an essential reference book for our times. i'm sorry. professor bloom thank you so much for your time, appreciate it. we will be right back. will be right back. susan and i'm 52 and i live in san francisco, california. i have been a sales and sales management professional my whole career. typical day during a work week is i'm working but first always going for a run or going to the gym. i love reading. i love cooking healthy. it's super important to me. i was noticing that i was just having some memory loss. it was really bothering me. so i tried prevagen and it started to work for me. i wish i had taken prevagen five or ten years ago. prevagen. healthier brain. better life. to help prevent bleeding gums, try saying hello gumwash with parodontax active gum health. it kills 99% of plaque bacteria and forms an antibacterial shield. try parodontax active gum health mouthwash. ♪ limu emu ♪ and doug. ♪ harp plays ♪
only two things are forever: love and liberty mutual customizing your car insurance, so you only pay for what you need. (emu squawks) if anyone objects to this marriage, speak now or forever hold your peace. (emu squawks) (the crowd gasps) no, kevin, no! not today. only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ so this is the meta portal plus. a smart video calling device that makes working from home work. a 12-megapixel lens makes sure your presentation is crystal clear. and smart camera auto pans and zooms to keep you perfectly in frame. oh, and it syncs with your calendar. plus, with zoom, microsoft teams, and webex, you'll never miss a meeting. and neither will she. now that's a productive day. meta portal: make working from home work for you. all right that is going to it

for us, let me remind you that when you're used to seeing, me anymore, i will be back again tomorrow night, it was a, night 9 pm eastern for another special edition of therachelmaddowshow, you are just gonna have to stand it. now it's time for the last word with lawrence o'donnell, good evening lawrence. >> i'm just going to have to get used to itrachel, this is fun. we have some breaking news,rachel-- court schedules an initial appearance of january 6th case of michigan gop gubernatorial candidate brian kelly. his initial appearance is scheduled for thursday at 1 pm, exactly the same time that the