good luck with your move to wellington. look for to getting updates in the future. that is all in this monday night. watch with -- everything the noon eastern this -- casual episode of inside with jen psaki every thursday exclusively on peacock.rachelmaddowshowstarts right now. good evening,rachel. what a day. >> good evening, jen. i know. i love a news day that has some expected things and some surprises. and that was today. >> and some testimony. >> yeah. for real, man. are you suggesting there might be some transcript feeder coming up? >> there might be. >> you are correct >> i can't wait to see what you say about it. >> thank you, jen. much appreciated. thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. really happy to have you here. so he was discharged from the u.s. air force in 1959 after heroic service frankly. heroic and unusual service. you'll see what i mean from this headline that ran about him
in "ebony" magazine in may 1959. gi risks death 65 times for science. these images are from a documentary by the jackson historical society credited to the u.s. air force and these are real time issues of him in the late 1950s in the air force andshowsome of what he went through as part of his service. his name was alton yates. he is 23 years old in these pictures, airman second class in the u.s. air force. what you see him doing here is participating in important testing that was conducted for the u.s. space program. they were using airmen and the u.s. air force for tests that were designed to see whether the human body could really with stand what were expected to be the rigors of space travel. the vast stresses of acceleration and rapid
deceleration and pressure changes and everything else. alton yates was not the only airman who went through this but he was one of them and he participated in a huge number, in 65 of those tests of the human body in the extremes. and he is fine. he lived to tell the tale and proudly. he was discharged in 1959 after that very honorable service. after he was discharged in 1959 he headed home. to jacksonville, florida. around this time he was getting out of the air force after this amazing service, late 1959 early 1960, obviously there was tremendous organizing happening throughout the american south at that time for the civil rights movement. for that young man who had been serving his country, he was 23, 24 years old at the time. there was a lot in the air. in february, 1960, students in
greensboro, north carolina, had started this new tactic sitting in at segregated lunch counters. that tactic moved from greensboro, north carolina and soon spread all over the south. by august, 1960 it had spread to jacksonville, florida, the home of alton yates. a local naacp in 1960 had a youth council. the president of the youth council was all of 16 years old. he was a high school student named rodney hearst. the vice president of the naacp council in jacksonville was this recently discharged hero airman, alton yates. and under their leadership, this high school kid and this recently discharged hero, usairman, the naacp youth council in jacksonville, florida decided in 1960, august, 1960, august 13th to be specific, that
they, too, would start segregated lunch counter sit-ins. they would have young black people sit down at the whites only lunch counters in segregated downtown jacksonville, florida. first one was august 13th. they were berated and attacked. the lunch counters were actually closed down in the middle of the day rather than serve those young people. the lights were turned off. the kids nevertheless decided that they would keep doing it and they would expand it to include all the segregated lunch counters in downtown jacksonville. that first peaceful nonviolent sit-in had been on august 13th. by august 16th, they had not just resistance and attacks in the moment they had organized resistance. the white citizens council in jacksonville convened a meeting august 16th in which they pledged they were going to stop these kids, stop these young people from what they were doing at all costs. by august 24th, not yet two
weeks into this process, the local ku klux klan held its own meating to plan not just resistance but a violent counterattack to stop these kids. and we know this. there is documentary proof of it because the local klan in jacksonville at the time included one man who volunteered to be an fbi informant inside the klan and he gave the minutes of the klan meeting from august 24th, 1960, to the fbi. this meeting in which they planned to attack these young people from the naacp youth council. the fbi then alerted the local sheriff's office that the klan was planning a violent attack. local authorities, local law enforcement knew the whole plan in advance. they knew the klan was planning to bring hundreds of white men downtown into jacksonville the following saturday, august 27th, whereupon they would have stashed baseball bats and ax handles to use as their weapons.
the informant said the klan's initial plan had been sort of theatrical. they planned to have a white woman pretend to have been attacked by young black men who were trying to desegregate the lunch counters. they said that the plan was to, the informant said the plan was to get this woman near to where the sit-in demonstration was happening and then she would collapse and say she had been attacked and that's why she collapsed. and they thought that would give the klansmen all the cover they'd need to open up the gates of hel in downtown jacksonville. in the end though that was their plan they decided they didn't need the pretext of the woman pretending to be attacked, the woman pretending to collapse. the klansmen stashed ax handles and baseball bats in the bushes at a downtown jacksonville park. they went and retrieved them from that park. they handed out more of them from a vehicle, some sort of van or truck, and then these klansmen, something like 200 of them, just mauraded into
downtown jacksonville and ostensibly were targeting the young people, the naacp youth council that had been carrying out the nonviolent civil disobedience at the lunch counters. but turns out the klan couldn't contain themselves and it turned into just a free for all. and, yes, the naacp youth council was set upon, airman second class alton yates was cracked across the skull. they also just went after everybody who was black in downtown jacksonville that day including women and kids and men who had nothing to do with the demonstration at all who were just passersby. this photo appeared in "life" magazine at the time. you see that young man bloodied and dazed. he actually was not an activist. he had not been part of the lunch counter sit-ins at all. his name was charlie griffin. he was just a high school junior, just a bystander.
but they went after him, too. and with images like this coming out of jacksonville, you can see why this explosion of racist violence on august 27th in jacksonville, florida, 1960, you can see why it got national news. it ended up, this photo, in "life" magazine and also ended up on the front page of the "new york times." "violence flares in jacksonville." 50 injured as white gangs clash with negros. in "life" magazine, on the front page of the "new york times." you know where it didn't end up on the front page was the main white newspaper in jacksonville, florida. "florida times union." they didn't cover the sit-ins at the downtown lunch counters at all and when it came to the white race riot on august 27th they buried coverage of that on page 15 of the paper. which is all the more amazing when you consider that after the initial frenzied attack,
hundreds of white men running through the downtown chasing people down and beating them with ax handles, after that initial, frenzied attack, the rioting in jacksonville actually continued for two more nights. the "florida town union" the white paper of record did not see fit to mention it. it was just a hurricane of violence. in the end, the kids, the young people who organized those protests at the lunch counters, they won. they started those protests like i said in august, 1960. by the spring of 1961, jacksonville had quietly integrated its downtown lunch counters. and it took longer but the "florida times union" newspaper in recent years has tried to make up for the dismal role that it played in these events. it has in years since covered
the anniversary of what has become known as "ax handle saturday" such a dramatic name but they really did stockpile and hand out ax handles and use them in an orgy of white violence against any black person they could find in jacksonville that day and that night and the night after. ax handle saturday. this weekend on saturday in washington, d.c. there was a big commemoration of the 60th anniversary of the march on washington. 60 years since a quarter million americans came to washington to press peacefully for civil rights. march on washington is of course one of the red letter, most important days in american history. it's just a moral apex moment for this country that still would be remembered as such even if it hadn't provided the setting for one of the most important and beloved speeches in the modern world. the "i have a dream" speech from
martin luther king. but as that 60th anniversary of the march on washington was celebrated this weekend and today in washington, in jacksonville this weekend they were also marking the anniversary of ax handle saturday. both of those anniversaries coincided with today's news with a young white man with swastikas etched on his ar-15 heading into a black neighborhood dollar store in jacksonville, florida and opening fire. at least according to one local official the young man told white people they should leave the store that he was about to shoot up. and then he kept shooting specifically at black people. he killed two young african american men and an african american woman before police say he then shot himself. local authorities announced just tonight that they are finishing up going through the various racist manifestos that he left
behind so they can get those released to the public in the interest of transparency. do we really need those released to the public? i do not know. we'll get help on that important question in just a moment. but they did already give us the photos of the swastikas he used to decorate the gun that he used to go kill black people. i mean, sure, let's keep going. i'm not sure how much more illuminating we will find the very dead end of this very short street. like i said, we will get some expert help on that in just a moment. in generally feel like it's always better to know than to not know. especially given how much we are prone to forget. in 2020, for example, the republican national committee had to scramble a bit when they forgot to notice that they had picked ax handle saturday as a great day for donald trump to go to jacksonville, florida to
accept the republican party's nomination for president. what better way to commemorate 60 years since a bloody orgy of american racial violence than to go right there to that site and say you're happy to accept the nomination for president. we are prone to forget. this weekend the st. paul ame church in jacksonville held a vigil for victims of this weekend's racist mass shooting in jacksonville by this man with the swastikas on his gun. i should tell you that is the same congregation, the same ame congregation that gave shelter to black men and women and kids who were hunted by the ax handle wielding mobs this same weekend 63 years ago in jacksonville in 1960. this same weekend neo-nazis spread anti-semitic flyers attacking jews again in macon, georgia. also this weekend neo-nazi group turned out in ashowof force in
woburn, massachusetts to menace and intimidate immigrant families living there. we are a week out from a man with a history of far right postings on social media shooting and killing a woman in san bernadino, california because she flew a pride flag outside her store. this follows neo-nazi cds randomly being mailed to people all over montana and other neo-nazi groups demonstrating at the state capitol in augusta, maine. in jacksonville, itself, they have been plagued over the past year by neo-nazi groups using laser projectors to project swastikas and other nazi imagery in quotes on to downtown buildings on the jacksonville skyline and on to the jacksonville stadium. we're still today watching the unfurling stream of bomb threats to oklahoma elementary schools after the far right education commissioner in oklahoma decided he would amplify extreme right
attacks on an oklahoma elementary school librarian, which has resulted now in days and days and days of death threats and bomb threats targeting oklahoma elementary schools, headline in "the tulsa world" more school bomb threats keep investigators busy and parents worried. you know, sometimes there are law enforcement consequences for these things. this week we're going to see four straight days of sentencings for members of pro trump, armed right wing paramilitary groups whose members have been convicted of seditious conspiracy against the u.s. government. those sentencings start tomorrow in federal court in washington and continue all week. but even as we await those sentencings starting tomorrow, today the georgia bureau of investigation, which is the georgia state version of the fbi, they had to send a message to all state lawmakers in georgia asking lawmakers to please report all new threats they receive, all concerning interactions with members of the
public. please report those to law enforcement because of a heightened threat environment for politicians in georgia because, of course, there as lot going on in what dpournts the straight up normal news right now. in georgia, in the georgia case in which former president trump and 18 codefendants are charged with engaging in a criminal racketeering enterprise aimed at derailing the transfer of power and keeping trump in office despite him losing the election, today interestingly, we had kind of a mini trial of some of the claims that are at issue in that indictment. it wasn't exactly a dry run, because what happened today is potentially a really consequential thing in itself, but today in georgia, somewhat to everyone's surprise, we had trump's white house chief of staff mark meadows and georgia secretary of state brad raffensperger and other witnesses all testifying in an
all day hearing that did kind of seem like a mini version of the georgia trial in that they hit a lot of the merits of that case. this today was all part of an effort to take that georgia case out of georgia state court and have it heard in federal court instead. we'll talk more about what that means coming up this hour and what we learned from that sort of mini trial in court today. we also got word today from the federal judge who is hearing trump's january 6th federal case in washington, d.c. we heard from her today that she wants jury selection to start in that trial the first week of march. that date is very interesting. it is also very soon. we also, though, in today's proceedings got a window into how that federal judge is going to conduct that case, how she is going to run that courtroom. she had, for example, a surprising and very specific warning for trump's defense team that we're going to get some expert help on tonight over the course of this hour. there is a lot going on. but because i do think we are prone to forget i think it is also important to not lose sight
of the environment in which all of this news is happening. this morning heading into what we knew would be two big important cases today, reporter alan foyer wrote an article this morning sort of reminding us where this may be heading. he said, quote, the time tables for mr. trump's four trials have taken on outsize importance not only because there are so many of them but also because they are unfolding against trump's crowded calendar as the candidate leading the field for the republican candidate for nomination. trump has made no secret in private conversations with his aids of his desire to solve his jumble of legal problems by winning the election.
quote if either of the two federal trials is delayed until after the election and trump prevails he could seek to pardon himself after taking office or have his attorney general simply dismiss the matters all together. i know that learning that trump has been saying that privately to his staffers is not shocking news per se, right? we knew that was what he was probably think. per the "new york times" it is now significant that is now what he is telling people he is going to do. he will solve his jumble of legal problems by winning the election. and, you know, whatever you think about that, that's how he is thinking about that. and what does that say about the election for all of the rest of us, right? it means in his own mind and those of his campaign and his supporters, presumably, these are the stakes and again whatever you think about that as a legal strategy for trump that is how he is thinking about the
election. that is how he is going to be talking to his supporters and aides and campaign about the election. the election means one of two things if this is the way he is going to approach it. either he loses the election and goes to prison or he wins the election. he doesn't go to prison. and is that for life he gets to be president? will we keep having new elections? if every election is an opportunity for him to go to prison do you think he allows us to have elections? if winning the election is his plan to stay out of prison what happens if and when he does not win it? does that kind of election end with a graceful concession to a fair and square re-elected president biden? i mean, if trump and his supporters see the stakes as losing and going to prison or winning and being president and probably president for life, how
should we expect that he and the republican party and republican officials in swing states are going to handle the conduct of that election that trump may very well lose? and because we are prone to forget, we have to say out loud that we would be remiss. we would be willfully naive to ask that question as if our politics exists in a vacuum. somewhere outside the rest of our news. as if the politics pages are totally different than the crime pages, right? as if we are not in a moment where far right politics is coinciding with far right violence, with regular shows of force from paramilitary extreme right groups and with acts of violence by people who are explicitly and admittedly motivated by far right eliminationist political ideas. we are prone to forget but we do not have to forget.
so what should we know? what can we know about what happens in the far right politics when it appears to be in nexus with far, far right violence that right now is just pinging off the charts? joining us now is one of the nation's leading researchers on far right extremism and white power movements, associate professor at northwest university and author of "bring the war home the white power movement and paramilitary america." professor, i really appreciate you making time to be here with us tonight. thank you so much. >> thanks for having me. >> so one of the reasons i want to talk to you tonight is because of the jacksonville authorities, jacksonville sheriff saying tonight that they're pretty sure they're going to release the racist manifestos from this shooter in jacksonville this weekend. they say they want to do that in the interest of transparency. somebody who studied these
things for a long time what do you make of that decision? what do you think the impact is positive or negative of letting those manifestos see the light of day? >> so manifestos are tricky documents because on the one hand they are deeply coded. they are intended to impart information to future gunmen at target selection, weapon selection, the ins and outs of how to carry out a similar attack. so we see these manifestos ending up in the hands of future attackers. that is a huge problem and authorities are absolutely right to be cautious in how this circulates. the trick is, though, that without the manifesto people who study white power violence, military right violence, are really working with a much smaller amount of information so right now were i to say this is a clear incident of white power gun violence, i'm basing that on the choice of the target and the scrawled messages on the barrel
of the gun. these are a clear reference to the christ church shooting, reminiscent of what we saw in that attack. but without the manifesto we are work wg a lot less information. i tend to think we might easily release the manifestos to experts who can analyze them and decode without circulating them publicly and get sort of the best of both options. >> the jacksonville sheriff has said publicly that he doesn't think the shooter was part of a larger group. that he acted alone. as you mentioned obviously there is a lot we still don't know here. i wanted to ask you about this sort of lone wolf idea because you've written a lot about this and i feel like your take on this is important for people to absorb at a popular level. >> sure. >> if the shooter did espouse white supremacist beliefs can you explain why it might be dangerous or even wrong to dismiss that as a lone wolf event based on the fact that he acted a is a single person when he went out shooting?
>> absolutely. this is why we need the manifesto. when we consume stories of this violence as a lone wolf, quote-unquote, we are consuming them as if they exist without connection to each other or ideological basis. this is how we get stories about jacksonville as something separate from christ church and pittsburgh and buffalo and charleston. many of these attacks have not only a shared characteristics in the communities that are impacted but they are all carried out by white power perpetrators who are united through social ties, united ideologically, they share information about weapons and tactics and strategies and they are all working for the same purpose which by the way is not limited only to mass attacks as a strategy but also exists in this outline you just gave where it is running into our national
politics and should be discussed in the same breath not only as other mass attacks but also in the same breath as the other sort of pings of activity that you have outlined. one way to think about this is that although the scheduling of the ax handle saturday moment for the trump campaign might have been erroneous we have many other incidents where trump's open embrace of this movement has not been erroneous and i could think for instance of the press conference he scheduled in waco this spring to announce his renewed campaign for 2024. waco to many people may simply signify the branch davidian siege and the sort of general antifederal government sentiment that people take from that. but to white power activists waco is a direct reference to the oklahoma city bombing. it is a call to further violence. so, you know, we can have a discussion about whether or not
they meant it this way but there is plenty of information, plenty of historical precedent, plenty of expert analysis that can tell us what this movement will perceive. and all signs point to increasing acts of violence. >> kathleen belew associate professor of history at northwestern, author of "bring the war home the white power movement and paramilitary america." professor belew, i really appreciate you being here tonight, always to talk about something dark but you always bring some light to the subject. thank you. >> thank you. >> we have much more ahead tonight. do stay with us. ♪♪ when you have chronic kidney disease... there are places you'd like to be. like here. and here.
not so much here. if you have chronic kidney disease, farxiga can help you keep living life. ♪ farxiga ♪ and farxiga reduces the risk of kidney failure, which can lead to dialysis. farxiga can cause serious side effects including dehydration, urinary tract or genital yeast infections in women and men, and low blood sugar. ketoacidosis is a serious side effect that may lead to death. a rare life-threatening bacterial infection in the skin of the perineum could occur. stop taking farxiga and call your doctor right away if you have symptoms of this bacterial infection, an allergic reaction, or ketoacidosis. farxiga can help you keep living life. ask your doctor for farxiga for chronic kidney disease. if you can't afford your medication, astrazeneca may be able to help. ♪ farxiga ♪ when it comes to your hair, ingredients matter. that's why herbal essences is packed with naturally derived plant ingredients you love,
and none of the stuff you don't. our sulfate-free collections smell incredible... ♪ and leave your hair touchably soft and smooth. ♪ herbal essences
♪ (man) that looks really high. (woman) it is high. whenever you are ready. (man) are there any snakes? (woman) nope. (man) are you sure? here we go! (vo) it's time to push your limits. (man) okay. (woman) you're doing great! (man) oh, is that a buffalo? (woman) babe, that's a cow. (vo) the all-new subaru crosstrek wilderness. adventure on the edge. the power goes out and we still have wifi to do our homework. and that's a good thing? great in my book! who are you? no power? no problem. introducing storm-ready wifi. now you can stay reliably connected through power outages with unlimited cellular data and up to 4 hours of battery back-up to keep you online. only from xfinity.
home of the xfinity 10g network.
we got the transcript. okay. quote, the deputy clerk, good morning, your honor. this is criminal case number 23-257, united states of america versus donald j. trump. counsel, please approach the lectern and state your appearance for the record. ms. gaston the prosecutor. good morning, your honor. molly gaston for the united states along with thomas windom. the judge, good morning. mr. laurel the defense lawyer. good morning, your honor. john laurel on behalf of president trump. with me is my partner greg singer and tomorrow blanche who has noticed an appearance as well as cocounsel for president trump. the judge, all right. good morning, everyone. we are here for a hearing regarding the parties' proposed trial dates. so this was the hearing today in federal court in d.c. to set a date for the trial of donald trump in one of the four
criminal trials he is currently facing. this is the case about him trying to falsify the election results. it's a federal case about that. what this means in practical terms is that this hearing today was basically the opportunity for trump's lawyers to defend their argument that they've already made to the court in print that trump's trial, federal trial trying to overturn the election results shouldn't start for another two and a half years. it shouldn't start until 2026. today was the hearing where they were going to defend that argument. today judge chutkan federal judge in d.c. made clear they are not going to get their 2026 wish but how she got there was kind of amazing. the judge, quote, now i want to note here that setting a trial date does not depend and should not depend on a defendant's personal and professional obligations. mr. trump like any defendant will have to make the trial date work regardless of his schedule. if this case for example involved a professional athlete it would be inappropriate for me
to schedule a trial date to accommodate her schedule. the same is true here. among other things the public has an interest in the fair and timely administration of justice as well as reducing defendant's opportunity to commit crimes while on pretrial release and preventing extended pretrial delay from impairing the deterrent effect of punishment. the prosecutors then tried to sort of bolster that point from the judge, ms. gaston the prosecutor says, quote, the defendant formerly the senior most official in our federal government is accused of historic crimes, attempting to overturn the presidential election, disenfranchise millions of americans, and obstruct the peaceful trans per of power. there's an incredibly strong public interest in a jury's prompt and full consideration of those claims in open court. and there is also a strong public interest in a fair trial which means we need to proceed to trial as soon as the defense can be ready, reasonably, because on a near daily basis
the defendant posts on social media about this case. he has publicly disparjd witnesses. he has attacked the integrity of the courts and the citizens of the district of columbia who make up our jury pool, and this potentially prejudices the jury pool. so under the speedy trial act your honor we need to find a time for trial. when? well as soon as the defense can reasonably be ready. so that is the judge saying, listen. the public has an interest in a speedy trial here. the prosecutor saying oh, yes they do. when the judge though attempts to have a discussion about what would be a reasonable amount of time for trump's defense lawyers to go through all the evidence, that was a very heated portion of today's hearing. the judge found herself repeatedly instructing trump's lawyer basically to calm down. quote, mr. laurel, defense counsel, this is a request for ashowtrial not a speedy trial and i'm sorry, your honor, to suggest for a federal prosecutor to suggest that we could go to
trial in four months is not only absurd but it's a violation of the oath to do justice. let me just go through this organized material. and then the judge interrupts. okay. let's take the temperature down for a moment here. trump's lawyer goes on. mr. laurel, quote, for the government to suggest that i can do that in four months is an outrage to justice. not once have they talked about justice in this case, not once. so this is what i have to do. now they can give me key documents. that's very nice of them. that's very kind of them. i'd like to know one defense lawyer in the united states that's going to rely on a government's proposal of key documents. the judge, mr. lauro, as i said, let's take the temperature down. in the end judge chutkan scheduled the trial for march 4th not of 2026 but of next year. the judge says, quote, the offense giving rise to this case occurred at the end of 2020 and
the beginning of 2021. to propose trying this case over five years later risks the real danger that witnesses may become unavailable or their memories may fade. and while mr. trump has a right to time to prepare, the public has a right to a prompt and efficient resolution of this matter. this timeline does not move the case forward with the haste of the mob. the trial will start three years one month and 27 days after the events of january 6th, 2021. so march 4th. jury selection begins. here is one other thing judge chutkan said today i think is worth noting and actually worth getting some advice about. the judge said today, quote, i realize that mr. trump's criminal case in new york is scheduled for trial on march 25th. i did speak briefly with the new york judge to let him know i was considering a date that might overlap with his trial. she is explaining why she is picking this date noting it is up against the new york date but
she says she has spoken to the judge. interesting. trump obviously has many trials in the next year. there is the one in new york on dozens of state felony charges, also the federal documents in florida and prosecutors in those cases may not themselves be talking to each other but the judges apparently are talking to each other. judge chutkan saying in open court today she has spoken to the judge for example in trump's new york case to give him a heads up, to help deconflict between at least those two trials. and while that might seem common sense, that's the first time we have seen anyone in any position of authority playing the role of air traffic controllers for all of these trials that are all going to be trying to land in the same year. and that happened on a day we got a surprise preview of what's going to happen in the georgia trial thanks to a surprise courtroom appearance from trump's white house chief of
staff mark meadows. lots happened today. we've got chuck rosenberg to help us understand what it all means. he is here with us next. h us ne. [sigh] now, powerwash gives me the power of an overnight soak in minutes. with 3 cleaning boosters... not found in traditional dish soaps that help break down, loosen and lift away food and grease... so much faster!
want a smarter way to mop? introducing the new swiffer powermop. an all-in-one cleaning tool with a 360-degree swivel head that goes places a regular mop just can't. mop smarter with the new swiffer powermop. you've evolved. ♪ you've changed. so have we. that's why dove body wash now has 24 hour renewing micro moisture for continuous care. dove body wash. change is beautiful. type 2 diabetes? dove body wash. discover the ozempic® tri-zone. in my ozempic® tri-zone, i lowered my a1c, cv risk,
and lost some weight. in studies, the majority of people reached an a1c under 7 and maintained it. ozempic® lowers the risk of major cardiovascular events such as stroke, heart attack, or death in adults also with known heart disease. and you may lose weight. adults lost up to 14 pounds. ozempic® isn't for people with type 1 diabetes. don't share needles or pens, or reuse needles. don't take ozempic® if you or your family ever had medullary thyroid cancer, or have multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 2, or if allergic to it. stop ozempic® and get medical help right away if you get a lump or swelling in your neck, severe stomach pain, or an allergic reaction. serious side effects may include pancreatitis. gallbladder problems may occur. tell your provider about vision problems or changes. taking ozempic® with a sulfonylurea or insulin may increase low blood sugar risk. side effects like nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea may lead to dehydration, which may worsen kidney problems. ask your health care provider about the ozempic® tri-zone. you may pay as little as $25. hi, i'm john and i'm from dallas, texas. my wife's name is joy. we've been married 45 years. i'm taking a two-year business course.
i've been studying a lot. i've been producing and directing for over 50 years. it's a very detailed thing and the pressure's all on me. i noticed i really wasn't quite as sharp as i was. my boss told me about prevagen and i started taking it. i feel sharper. my memory's a lot better. it just works. prevagen. at stores everywhere without a prescription. [♪♪] it just works. did you know, sweat from stress is actually smellier than other kinds of sweat? that's why i use secret clinical antiperspirant. it provides 3x stress sweat protection. danielle? [♪♪] secret works. [♪♪] david: i'm david goldberg, a bilingual elementary school teacher and president of the california teachers association. as we start a new school year, there's something new happening in california's public schools. jessie: they're called community schools. david: where parents and families, students and educators are making decisions as one. damien: it's a real sense of community. leslie: we saw double-digit gains in math, in english, and reading scores. david: it's an innovation that's
transforming our public schools. narrator: california's community schools: reimagining public education.   so today in a surprise donald trump's final white house chief of staff testified in federal court in detail for five hours about the alleged plot to overturn the election, the plot that is at the center of two of the criminal trials president
trump is currently facing. along with trump white house chief of staff mark meadows is one of 19 people indicted on state level rico charges in georgia but meadows spent his day today not in the fulton county courthouse but in the federal court in atlanta because he is asking the federal court to pluck this trial out of state court in georgia and please hold it in federal court instead. why does he want that? well, all the 19 georgia codefendants including trump would probably prefer having their case go before a federal jury drawn from the whole northern district of georgia. they'd prefer that to going before a state jury that would be drawn just from blue fulton county. but how likely is it that meadows will get his wish here? how did he do in his five hours on the stand today? if he does succeed, if he does get his case moved out of state court and into federal court, would that mean that the whole georgia case, the whole rico case would all go to federal
court or would it just be meadows? how might the back and forth in georgia over this affect what happens in d.c.? where trump just got a court date from march 4th of next year today. also, what gets decided next? how is this all going to go? joining us now is chuck rosenberg former u.s. attorney, former senior fbi official. chuck, it is great to see you. thanks for being here tonight. >> my pleasure,rachel. >> what do we know about how mark meadows did today, how good his case is that his trial should be moved to federal court? >> yeah, so there's a three part supreme court test that's important that i want to talk to you about. in order to get plucked out of state court as you described, he would have toshowthat he was a federal official. he was. that part's easy. that he was acting within the scope of his federal authority. that part's hard. and the third piece,rachel, that he would have a collarable
federal offense if the case were removed from state court. let's focus on number two was he acting within the scope of his federal authority? i think that is a hard thing for him toshow. chiefs of staff do lots of things and the chief of staff to a president of course does lots of things. but this was a political effort to thwart a fair and free election. and if mr. meadows is going to get tripped up over anything, it's this notion that he was acting within the scope of his federal authority. so he has a plausible claim. it's not a frivolous claim. but i think the judge is going to be skeptical that he meets that second prong toshowthat he was acting in the scope of his federal authority. >> chuck, why is it that every smart lawyer in the country looking at the news today said that it was shocking that mark meadows decided to take the stand and testify let alone for
five hours in this hearing? >> yeah, simply because he didn't have to,rachel. i mean, his side could have tried to meet their burden of proof and it was their burden of proof today by putting in affidavits or calling other witnesses. but remember, he is a defendant in a criminal case and so anything he says can be used against him in that case. that is pretty treacherous. it's one thing for him to answer questions from his own attorneys. that could be scripted. that could be prepped. that could be tested. it's another thing for him to answer questions on cross examination, which is precisely what happened. so if prosecutors got something valuable from his testimony today, they could use it against him in a criminal trial. that's what is surprising. that he took the stand at all when he actually didn't have to. >> the hearing today did not end with the judge ruling. the judge has to decide whether the case will be removed to federal court, which is what mr.
meadows is seeking. we'll get that ruling eventually. if mr. meadows succeeds and the case does get moved to federal court does that mean the whole case is going to get moved to federal court, that all of the other defendants will benefit in the same way he is trying to here? >> great question. i don't think you have enough time in theshowfor me to explain all of the possibilities,rachel. but there's two answers. yes and no. there's one school of thought that said the other 18 defendants go with mr. meadows. if one goes they all go to put it simply. there is another school of thought and i think this is probably more likely that you would determine what happens to each defendant on his or her own merits. remember, some of them are not even federal officials. some of them wouldn't have any plausible federal defense in federal court. it makes more sense to me that you would determine each one on his or her own merits.
>> that seems fair. random state senator or a publicist for a rapper at least at this point in our country's history doesn't count as a federal official. chuck rosenberg former u.s. attorney, former senior fbi official, clarion as always. chuck, thank you so much. >> thank you,rachel. >> we'll be right back. stay with us. u were on vacation? it's too expensive. use priceline, they've got deals no one else has. what about work? i got you. looking great you guys! ♪ go to your happy price ♪ ♪ priceline ♪
detect this: living with hiv, i learned i can stay undetectable with fewer medicines. that's why i switched to dovato. dovato is a complete hiv treatment for some adults. no other complete hiv pill uses fewer medicines to help keep you undetectable than dovato. detect this: most hiv pills contain 3 or 4 medicines. dovato is as effective with just 2. if you have hepatitis b, don't stop dovato without talking to your doctor. don't take dovato if you're allergic or allergic reaction symptoms, stop dovato and get medical help right away. serious or life-threatening lactic acid buildup and liver problems can occur. tell your doctor if you have kidney or liver problems, or if you are pregnant, breastfeeding, or considering pregnancy. dovato may harm an unborn baby. most common side effects are headache, nausea, diarrhea, trouble sleeping, tiredness, and anxiety. detect this: i stay undetectable with fewer medicines.
ask your doctor about switching to dovato. ♪ chevy silverado has what it takes to do it all. with up to 13 camera views. and the z71 off-road package. ♪ you ok? yeah. any truck can help you make a living. this one helps you build a life. chevy silverado. ♪♪ open talenti and raise the jar to gelato made from scratch. raise the jar to flavors from the world's finest ingredients. and now, from jars to bars. new talenti gelato and sorbetto mini bars. ♪♪
oh stuffed up again? so congested! you need sinex saline from vicks. just sinex, breathe, ahhhh! [sniffs] what is — wow! baby: daddy. sinex. breathe. ahhhhhh! >> woman: why did we choose safelite? >> vo: for us, driving around is the only way we can get our baby to sleep, so when our windshield cracked, we needed it fixed right. we went to safelite.com. there's no one else we'd trust. their experts replaced our windshield, and recalibrated our car's advanced safety system. they focus on our safety... so we can focus on this little guy. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪
tired muscles and joints were keeping me from doing the things i loved most. not anymore. blue-emu gave me my freedom back. it supports healthy muscles and joints. shop our expanded family of products at major online retailers.   five members of one pro
trump armed paramilitary group will appear in court tomorrow for a hearing that may well decide the course of the rest of their lives. proud boys and oathkeepers convicts are going to be sentenced all week this week in federal court in d.c. some of these folks were convicted of seditious conspiracy, some were convicted of lesser charges. the high point at least in terms of public attention will likely wednesday when proud boys leaders enrique tarrio and ethan nordean are set to be sentd both convicted of seditious conspiracy and the department of justice seeking 33 years for tarrio and 27 years for nordean for their roles in trying to overthrow the u.s. government and keep donald trump in power. two other proud boys convicted of seditious conspiracy are going to face sentencing on thursday and then another proud boy will face sentencing on friday. this is all happening over the course of this week. starting tomorrow we are about to see the real sharp end of the stick in terms of what the legal system can bring to bear against people who try to overthrow the government and are convicted for
doing so. these guys are looking at potentially decades in prison. we're about to learn if they get it. you can bet the defendants and other january 6 related cases are going to be watching. so of course will we. fisher investments rket, you' is different than other money managers. (other money manager) different how? other january 6 related cases are going to be watching. so of course will we. n other january 6 related cases are going to be watching. so of course will we. er money m) but you still sell investments that generate high commissions for you, right? (fisher investments) no, we don't sell commission products. we're a fiduciary, obligated to act in our client's best interest. (other money manager) so when do you make more money, only when your clients make more money? (fisher investments) yep. we do better when our clients do better. at fisher investments, we're clearly different.
♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ wherever you go. wherever you stay. all you need is one key. earn and use rewards across expedia, hotels.com, and vrbo. want a smarter way to mop? introducing the new swiffer powermop. an all-in-one cleaning tool with a 360-degree swivel head that goes places a regular mop just can't. mop smarter with the new swiffer powermop. we, the first generation of moms to lose our kids to social media, are sick of waiting. for 25 years, there's been no new laws protecting kids online. while our children are dying.
we can pass the kids online safety act. join us. join us. join us. join us. ♪♪ let's lead the way. ♪ ♪ start your day with nature made. the #1 pharmacist recommended vitamin and supplement brand. if you have heart disease and are on a statin, lowering cholesterol can be hard. diets and exercise add to the struggle. today, it's possible to go from struggle to cholesterol success with leqvio. with a statin, leqvio is proven to lower bad cholesterol by over 50% and keep it low with two doses a year. common side effects were injection site reaction, joint pain, urinary tract infection, diarrhea, chest cold, pain in legs or arms, and shortness of breath. ask your doctor about twice-yearly leqvio. lower. longer. leqvio. ♪

one last bit of news tonight i hope you forgive me but it is my own news. i have a new book coming out. it is called "prequel an american fight against facism." timely. comes out october 14th. you can preorder it now if you would like to. the news i want to give you tonight is this. i told you i would tell you when i have this to share and i now do. i am going to do a book tour for "prequel" where i travel around the country and you can come see me if you would like to. i am going to start october 15th in philadelphia. then i'm going to new york, d.c., chicago, atlanta, san francisco, l.a., seattle, boulder, tulsa, i'm going to do
a final stop in western massachusetts but then i have another couple events in new york. a live taping with chris hayesfore his podcast "why is this happening" that is going to be fun november 12th in new york and then on december 13th i'll sit down at the 92nd >> good evening,rachel. i know i speak for about half 1 million people when i say i was just listening intently for the word boston and i didn't hear it. >> you heard