brothers to play against each other in the super bowl. and that there is hope for the rest of us. the chiefs not only hold a title, again they're building a dynasty. super bowl champs in 2020 and 2023, dominating the lead with 64 wins in the last five years. best record in the nfl. no, it is no surprise that we've got a young quarterback named patrick. who's worth a, play. man you also have travis, one of the greatest titans ever. you've got a young team built among the draft picks the turned into a -- pros and explosive offense and a tight defense. then there is coach andy reid. i was asked by the mayor of philadelphia to arrest him and taken back to philly, but i can't do that.
>> also a resident and dear chiefs fan, former missouri senator -- was at the event and got herself a selfie with the president. so, congrats to clare and all the chiefs kingdom for the super bowl victory. and on that victorious note, i wish you a good night. to all of our colleagues across the networks of nbc news, thank you for staying up late with. me i will see you at the end of tomorrow. >> thank you for joining. us so we spent 21 years of spying against the united states. he did it for money and who knows what else. but they did pay, him they paid him in cash. i also paid him in diamonds. which is a nice spy movie touch. but he's putting as the race for 21 years. and then, for the next 21 years after that, he resulted in
federal prison. so 21 years as a spy against america, and then 21 years and counting in prison because of its. before he died today. in prison, at the age of 79. it was stopped the presses huge national news, when they first caught in 2009. >> from nbc news world headquarters in new york. this is nbc nightly news with sean -- >> good evening and the fbi is under lock in. keep one of its own, a federal fbi agent with access to the most sensitive and highly classified information in the united states government. >> fbi agents today searched the washington home of one of their. own the worst spy case in fbi history. robert philippe hansen, a 25 year veteran of the fbi, accused of doing quote, extreme damage to the u.s.. with supersensitive classified
information to the soviet and russian handlers in washington. >> the criminal conduct represents the most traitors actions imaginable against the country is governed by the rule of law. >> the most traitorous actions imaginable. his name was robert hansen. he first joined the fbi in 1976 it moved up fast from the new york field office where he was first hired, two fbi headquarters in washington d.c.. and the part of the fbi that he worked on, in this area of specialty, was the part of the fbi that kept tabs on russia. they kept tabs on russia specifically running spies inside this country. hansen worked that part of the fbi that kept track of spying operations that the soviet union was running here in the u.s., targeting us. he wore an fbi counter intelligence. the part of the fbi that watched russian spies and try to stop them here in america.
and among other, things that meant that he knew a lot about russian spying operations in the united states. more than almost anybody else in the country. but that means we need essential to become our oceans by the united states. he knew exactly where to go, to and how to do it. it was only at the fbi for about three years. he don't the fbi in 1976 to 1979, they think he was on the russian payroll. stealing u.s. secrets, and giving them to moscow. among the stuff he gave them, were the names of russians. who were secretly working for the united states, inside russia. after he gave his russian handlers those names of russians who were secretly working for the u.s.. as people were rounded up by the soviet authorities and executed. he also told his russian handlers about the fact that
the fbi and the nsa had built a secret tunnel under the soviet embassy in washington, d.c.. basically as a way of bugging the embassy. he told me so it's about the tunnel under the, embassy winter course blew up that whole operation. in 2007, after he was in prison, this movie was made about the case. a movie called breach starring chris cooper as they spy, robert hansen star and ryan philippe as this young go getter fbi agents. to whom hansen was a huge jerk, and who gets assigned to this nerves of steel operation to catch hansen in the ankle being a spy. it is a good movie and has a very high creep factor. you can tell from the coloration here. it has got this creepy hitchcock ian abide throughout. which seems totally appropriate given the facts of the real
world case. but, even that movie breach from 2007, even that movie is nothing compared to the real live footage, this is real footage look here. of the real robert hansen being arrested. when that nerves of steel operation inside the fbi to catch him in the act actually days catch him in the act. this is the actual moment when he was taken into custody. he was at the park in fairfax virginia, a place called fox stone park and he had just left a dead drop for his russian handlers and the fbi had been watching him and he swooped in and arrested him and that was in 2001. it was national news, a huge deal all over the country. hansen pled guilty to 15 counts of espionage. played guilty to avoid the death penalty. he was arrested in 2001 and sentenced in 2002 to life in prison without the possibility
of parole. and that is where he was in prison without the possibility of parole, when he died today at the age of 79. given the type of high-level secret information that hansen gave first to the soviets and then to the russians, and given the body count that is attributed to him robert hansen's story is considered one of the most damaging u.s. intelligence disasters we have ever had as a country, and we have had a few. it is also just one of the darkest stories that we have when it comes to intrigue about russia and there are quite a few of those stories. even just in today's news alone and today in russia somebody to get ahead to get a safe speech to vladimir putin, broadcast on the russian tv and nato. early this afternoon rush the time it appears that somebody hack into at least one russian tv network and radio network
and broadcast a fake speech by vladimir putin in which putin appeared to be announcing that russia had been invaded. by ukraine, and that all russian civilians should evacuate from three russian provinces that border ukraine. he sat in his fake address that he was instituting martial law throughout russia. and that russia was going into full military mobilization would be a full draft of everybody eligible to be fighting. to go fight the war. none of that was real, but somebody had the wherewithal to piece together a pretty good looking fake broadcast to make it look and sound like that is what putin was telling the russian people today. and it ran this afternoon on russian television. it is like a war of the world's thing. but at a time and in a place when there actually is a war on. now this is fake, today it was pretty good. it was not particularly good.
but it could have a ban, i mean, this is now the era of widely available artificial intelligence technology and very cheap, very accessible technology for making so called a deep fakes. this thing could very easily get very very good very quickly. but we already know there is an appetite for it in this war i mean, this happened today, this fake putin broadcast happened today in russia on a day when the ukrainian military did start making what they are calling significant territorial gains. significant enough that some analysts in the united states are one delay wondering if maybe today was the kickoff of the ukrainian military big counterpunch in that war. their big plan for a counteroffensive to take back the territory that russia has seized from them in this war. it is interesting because there is enough uncertainty about that, but we've got these great competing headlines running tonight on the front page of the new york times. and the washington post. can we put them both up there
at the same time? do you see that there on the left there is the new york times. tonight, right now. as ukrainian attacks surged and u.s. officials see signs of counteroffensive which are at the same time in the washington post tonight. here is their contrary headline. ukraine forces advance on russians, which deny the counteroffensive has begun. we don't know whether the big much anticipated counterpunch has happened and whether or not the counter offensive has begun and whether not he would make sense for them to formerly announce it if it has begun. i mean, either way if you think about it this would not be a crazy time to pair a major new military effort. with a weird and big technological sigh off designed to freak out russia's population, and make the russian people questioned whether they should believe that is the real valiantly imprudent when they see somebody that looks like him, on tv.
so, maybe the ukrainian counteroffensive has started. maybe it hasn't. this fake putin broadcast today is a very weird intervention into psychological morass in which that war's happening on both sides of that border. and there is a lot of history going on. the russians also have this private for profit mercenary army. the wagner group which is fighting alongside the actual russian army in the ukrainian war, and in the past couple of days we're getting reports that russian forces have started shooting at the wagner group, and in response the wagner group has just arrested and kidnapped a russian general. i don't know what ukraine really thinks of their odds over all in melting their so-called counteroffensives militarily. because they can't be a bad thing for ukraine if the 20s that invaded them have not started shooting at each other and kidnapping each other's generals.
it's the ukrainian forces. i have a newshow. calledrachelmaddowpresents data news. the first four comes a week from tonight, i'll tell you more about it. then let the trio just came out today. it is that right now if you want to check out the trailer. follow theshowfor free if you got no besides in they come out. you can see it all on msnbc news.com slash data news. it is just a trailer that out and now, a person never won comes out next week. but to the basic idea of this new podcast is that, deja vu all over again, basically. we keep having things happen in the news that seem totally unprecedented. that seemed bizarre and new and out of the blue but in fact there is president and there is something else like this that this happened before and we may
be learning about the historical precedent can help us better understand what otherwise it feels like an overwhelming or super unfamiliar in today's news which is the basic idea of thisrachelmaddowpresents deja news podcast which is just launching today. but with all the russia intrigue in today's news and with robert hansen dying this massively damaging russian spy, with a fake putin's speech being mysteriously broadcast on russian tv and radio, and with the bizarre dog-eat-dog fighting between real russian soldiers and paid russian mercenaries who are supposed to be on the same side in the war and with all that crazy news today, the deja, deja news moment i've been having today as one from 2018 from the trump administration. do you remember they do not congratulate saga? do you remember this?
this was five years ago. 2018. the washington post broke this bizarre story about then president trump getting briefed by his national security advisers. he's about to get on a phone call with vladimir putin, the president of russia. by then it was pretty well established that trump did not like getting too much in print in terms of briefing materials. they announced in march 2018 the trump advisers made sure they put one thing in his briefing papers, in all capital letters. basically the idea, being okay, we know you don't like to read. but if you only take away one, thank you only remember one thing, we are telling you get on this call. then just remember this. we're gonna put it in all capital letters. on a piece of paper, on your desk in front of you. well you are talking to him. and we are gonna tell you to do this. you cannot forget. this do not congratulate. that wasn't all capital letters right in front of him while they put them on the phone with
putin. now, the reason they did it is because russia had just had some elections sensibly that were not real elections. it was there for importance that's the president of the united states should not endorse the purported outcome of these elections as if they were real. so there is a three word note in his briefing materials saying whatever else you say to this guy, do not congratulate. and then what happened? trump of course got on the phone with putin and immediately said i want to congratulate you, sir. on your great election victory. it is the one thing he was supposed to do not say. do not congratulate. it is the first thing he said to the guy. that was 2018. deja news. because this was this weekend. congratulations ken john on. or as he spells, it kim john when. lots of foreign leaders names are hard to spell.
kim jong-un is not one of those names. i just have to tell. you i said to say. it is pretty much fanatic. it is kim jong-un, how hard is that? but still, he misspelled. more to the point, though. and that, general american politicians in those circumstances should be congratulating the dictator of north korea on anything. i mean, barring kim jong-un stepping up down and apologizing, that will be the only thing you can congratulate him for. otherwise, do not congratulate. standing order when it comes to the dictator of north korea. but there he is warmly congratulating kim jong-un and misspelling it in the meantime. and you know, in a normal political world somewhere between you deciding to congratulate the north korean dictator and you misspelling that congratulations, somewhere between their the idea of you at this presidential material
with like, shredded self and blowing away like a plastic bag in a ten lane highway. but instead, you know, he is still the front runner of the republican party's presidential nominating contest for 2024. do not congratulate. and all the other candidates in that race, and there are many of them now, or all sort of struggling with what to do even with something that that. or something that obviously wrong. even with this guy issuing warm congratulations to the north korean dictator. florida governor ron desantis for example. he was asked about today's and he managed to say that he was, quote, surprised to see that congratulations from former president trump for the dictator of north korea. he said he was surprised. surprise, really? i mean, trump expressing warm and misspelled congratulations to the north korean dictator is a lot of things.
but is it surprising? really? you really didn't see that coming? really didn't see this exact thing from him before? the other way this is turning into a deja news sort of thing is the overall size of the 2024 field on the republican side. there is a reason this feels familiar. in 2016, the republican presidential field worries me regress republican presidential field ever. there were 17 different candidates in 2016 who ran for the republican presidential nomination. that was the party's biggest field ever. but of course, it almost dissolved into an amorphous contest between trump and all of the other candidates who were not trump. he started off as a joke at the outset and very quickly became the front runner and then he instantly dispatched all of the 16 other candidates who tried to wear on, tried to run is not him. instead of just running against him.
they are trying to run his deal through the trump instead of actually running against trump. that is what happened in 2016 and that is how trump got the nomination in 2016. today it looks like we may be on pace to have just as weak a field. mike pence is now getting in the race as of today. before, that we got rhonda santas. before that we got nikki haley and tim scott and asa hutchison and some others i cannot even remember of the top of my head. it's looking like this week we are about to get chris christie and also maybe the governor of north dakota. i was going to be a lawyer be fueled apparently. and it is not clear yet if any of them have learned the lessons of 2016 organism are going to try to run against trump instead of just running a somebody who is not him. today, though. with news of the reconvening of the d.c. grand jury considering
federal criminal charges against trump, with news that another federal grand jury is considering something related to trump in florida, something we obviously did not know, and with trump's attorneys meeting with justice department officials in d.c., including meeting with the special counsel himself in washington and was trump's existing attorneys reportedly shocking shopping around for jesper trump attorneys which apparently are looking specifically for defense lawyers with federal trial experience in washington. today at, least all of this news makes it appear that part of the preparation for republican presidential politics this year is going to be everybody preparing for a potential federal criminal indictment of the front runner over and above the state criminal charges he's already facing. and if we end up with a doubly indicted republican party presidential front-runner, that would be a new thing in our politics. we have got the latest on that ahead tonight.
plus, a big policy challenge for the biden administration to talk about tonight. this is something that the obama administration also faced and they were able to basically handle it and basically take a strong stance that made a difference while the biden administration is now trying to do that too and it is proving to be very difficult for them. we have an in-depth report on that coming up next and it is all ahead. a lot to get through, stay with us. , stay wit us my a1c was up here; now, it's down with rybelsus®. his a1c? it's down with rybelsus®. my doctor told me rybelsus® lowered a1c better than a leading branded pill and that people taking rybelsus® lost more weight. i got to my a1c goal and lost some weight too. rybelsus® isn't for people with type 1 diabetes. don't take rybelsus® if you or your family ever had medullary thyroid cancer, or have multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 2, or if allergic to it. stop rybelsus® and get medical help right away if you get a lump or swelling in your neck,
severe stomach pain, or an allergic reaction. serious side effects may include pancreatitis. gallbladder problems may occur. tell your provider about vision problems or changes. taking rybelsus® with a sulfonylurea or insulin increases low blood sugar risk. side effects like nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea may lead to dehydration, which may worsen kidney problems. need to get your a1c down? you may pay as little as $10 per prescription. somebody would ask her something and she would just walk right past them, (laughs). she didn't know they were talking to her. i just could not hear. i was hesitant to get the hearing aids because of my short hair. but nobody even sees them. our nearly invisible hearing aids are just one reason we've been the brand leader for over 75 years. when i finally could hear for the first time, i could hear everything. unlock our best deal of the year during our 75th anniversary sale. call 1-800-miracle today. trelegy for copd. ♪birds flyin' high, you know how i feel.♪ ♪breeze driftin' on by...♪
♪...you know how i feel.♪ you don't have to take... [coughing] ...copd sitting down. ♪it's a new dawn,...♪ ♪...it's a new day,♪ it's time to make a stand. ♪and i'm feelin' good.♪ start a new day with trelegy. no once-daily copd... ...medicine has the power to treat copd... ...in as many ways as trelegy. with three medicines in one inhaler,... ...trelegy makes breathing easier for a full 24 hours, improves lung function, and helps prevent future flare-ups. trelegy won't replace a rescue inhaler... ...for sudden breathing problems. tell your doctor if you have a heart condition or high blood pressure before taking it. do not take trelegy more than prescribed. trelegy may increase your risk of thrush, pneumonia, and osteoporosis. call your doctor if worsened breathing, chest pain, mouth or tongue swelling, problems urinating,... ...vision changes, or eye pain occur. take a stand, and start a new day with trelegy. ask your doctor about once-daily trelegy... ...and save at trelegy.com. if we want a more viable future for our kids, we need to find more sustainable ways of doing things. america's plastic makers
are investing billions of dollars in new technologies and creating plastic products that are more recyclable. durable. and dependable. our goal is a cleaner, healthier planet for generations to come. for a better tomorrow, we're focused on making plastics better today. is it possible to protect my business from cyber threats? for a better tomorrow, it is, with comcast business. helping every connected device stay protected. yours. your employees'. even... susan? -hers, too. safe. secure. and powered by the next generation 10g network. with comcast business, advanced security isn't just possible. it's happening. get started with fast speeds and advanced security for $49.99 a month for 12 months. plus ask how to get up to a $750 prepaid card >> do you personally dislike with qualifying internet.
homosexuals? >> of course. what sort of people are they? >> that was the president of uganda in 2014. that was the day after he signed into law a really radical piece of legislation. it was referred to worldwide as the kildee gaze bail. because the original version of that law called just for that. it called for executing people
for the grave crime of being gay. now if you've been watching thisshowfrom the beginning you might remember that we covered the fight over this law extensively at the time. not just because it was so extreme but also because there was a big american connection to it. some of the architects of that bill were americans. radical anti gay evangelical activists and preachers. who went to uganda to sell what they could not get done here in this country to a different country where they thought they could get away with it. these groups carried on a multi year campaign to get radical anti gay legislation passed in uganda. and they succeeded. in 2014, the kildee gays law was signed into law in uganda. what happened next was interesting. it was not just the expected legal challenges within that country. we also saw a very strong stance from the obama white house at the time. this was when the obama administration's press release at the time. quote, human rights abusers
world right, we wanted to know that their mosty's are not unnoticed. and with the would-be human rights abuses should understand that there will be consequences for engaging in such actions. the statement is therefore taking steps to restrict the entry into the united states of a ugandan individuals involved in serious violations or pieces of human rights including those determined to have committed such violations or abuses against lgbt individuals. that was the obama administration in 2014 and the abomination also pushed that country and other really specific ways. the cancel joint military exercises that the u.s. had planned with uganda. the obama administration pulled millions of dollars that have been planned to be given to that country in support of their countries policing. u.s. at the time plans to open a national public health institute if you go out there instead the ugandan illustration withdrew the millions dollars a plan for that indifferent moved to another country instead. the obama white house used all
of these powers at its disposal, and it seems to have made a difference because those efforts were not the only reason that giannis and tequila fell apart in 2014. but it did fall apart. the law was challenged in court there and uganda by human rights activists and civil rights groups and by mps and academics and journalists and it was eventually struck down by ugandan courts on technical grounds. but the bigshowup on this issue from the united states by all accounts made a difference. now in 2023 it is back. it is worsen some ways and this new legislation once again comes against a backdrop of americans being involved in it. once again, a backdrop of u.s. anti gay evangelical groups pouring resources into advocating for this anti-gay agenda and uganda. now, that same you're going to present that says he thinks gay people are discussing has now
signed into law even harsher piece of legislation than what was passed in 2014. this new bill imposes yes the death penalty for what they call aggravated homosexuality. life in prison for anybody engaged in gay sex. this new law makes it illegal to even advocate for lgbtq people to have rights, even advocacy of gay rights carries a penalty of 20 years in prison. if you are lgbtq and you are living in uganda right now, it is an understatement to say the situation on the ground there is terrifying. lots of people are fleeing the country and other people have not left their homes since the legislation was first signed into law for fear that they will be targeted either by the government or by mob justice. so it is happening again, and the storm is worse. here is a question for us. is there an american government response that could be helpful
here? and the way the u.s. strong response was helpful in 2014. how much of a special responsibility does the u.s. have in fixing thanks given the role of certain americans in cultivating this stuff over there? but also does the u.s. have a special opportunity as a country, not to the responsibility of an opportunity to help? given that we have done it before and so far the biden administration has talked about measures and is considering measures that very much track exactly with what the obama white house did the last time around when this was in the headlines in 2013 in 2014. the question is whether or not ten years down the road that is enough. whether the u.s. could be doing something else or pushing more aggressively. we haven't seen what to expect from us, ten years ago. they went ahead and did it anyway this time. influences a patient of what they would do. so can the u.s. response be amped up to respond to that?
for how much more danger people are at, particularly since we are part of the problem for how we got into this mess in the first place. where do we go from here? joining us now is adrienne duco, the executive director of the human rights awareness promotion forum with which advocates for marginalized groups in uganda. he helped coordinate the successful legal challenge to uganda's anti gay bill in 2014. once again, he's now being pressed into service. he is joined with other leading gay rights advocates in this country to file a petition to try this latest law and try to get it thrown out. thank you very much for being here and it is good to meet. you first, let me just ask of anything i said seem wrong to you about the wrong way around? >> everything is quite inaccurate. >> in terms of the u.s. responsibility for things being so bad, that i don't to overstate that because obviously this is internal dynamics in your country that are largely driving this and as an american watching this process though, knowing that americans have been in uganda
advocating for this, it is upsetting and heartening to know that we have made it worse. have americans been part of bringing this around again? >> yes i think the media question here is around the parole. very kind concerning into uganda and -- if we do not stop it, now i think it will spread to the whole of africa. what is happening in kenya and uganda. >> so the u.s. has been pretty successful in advocating for this and uganda, but you think the same anti-gay american evangelical groups want this in as many african countries as they can get? >> that is absolutely their agenda. we thought they had a meeting with the president of uganda and many other and their confidence. this was the agent of the spurs across africa. >> in terms of the situation on the ground right now in uganda, we have seen a lot of reporting and spoke of -- a couple of weeks ago. about people anticipating the
law passing and above the law has passed just being afraid and afraid not just of the laws enforcement, but afraid that the law effectively gives random ugandan citizens encouragement to go be vigilantes and go attack people on their own. do you see it that way? is that part of the fear right now? >> exactly. one is if you ask me myself what i'm certain with i'm not promoting homosexuality. because that is exactly what it means but i'm also not sure what this means. so for an average ugandan -- [inaudible] the question what is going to happen to me next? i'm not gonna be picked up and beaten by my neighbors? for, example right now we're looking at about seven cases of eviction of gay persons by their landlords sense that bill was sent into law. >> the law was only signed last week. and you've already got seven cases of people who have been thrown out of their housing by their landlords? because of the law. >> absolutely.
>> when this happened in 2013 in 2014 we did see a strong response from the u.s. government in the obama administration which was strongly pushing back and publicly pushing pushing back against it. it appears from the observers of talk to that data help and have an influence and the biden administration has said a lot of the same things. is there more they could to do and are you happy with the response of the biden ministration so far? >> i am happy with the response so far but for me what i want is -- i want them to live up to what they promised. that is very important because if they do not live up to what they promised in the previous is watching so canyon the other countries also taking note and being like oh, nothing was done and nothing will be done. for me then they should do it. because what i've done. >> for, example when the biden administration says that there may be sanctions of ugandan officials, that is an appropriate response here, you want to make sure if they have
effectively threatens that, that in fact the sanctions do follow. >> that is what i would say. >> executive director of the human rights awareness and promotion forum. i know it is as you just explained it is a personal risk for you to be here talking about these things, given the way this lies set up and it makes me all the more grateful that you are here. >> thank you so much. >> good luck, stay in touch with us. he he is the executive order human rights unawareness forms in uganda and we have much more ahead here tonight. stay with us. ecular government. that's why i'm asking you to join the freedom from religion foundation, the nation's largest and most effective association of atheists and agnostics working to keep state and church separate, just like our founders intended. please join the freedom from religion foundation today. ron reagan, lifelong atheist, not afraid of burning in hell. your best defense against erosion and cavities
is strong enamel- nothing beats it. new pronamel active shield actively shields the enamel to defend against erosion and cavities. i think that this product is a gamechanger for my patients- it really works.
do you struggle with occasional nerve aches gamechanger for my patients- in your hands or feet? try nervive nerve relief from the world's number one nerve care company. nervive contains ala to relieve nerve aches, and b-complex vitamins to fortify healthy nerves. try nervive. and, try nervive pain relieving roll-on. realtor.com (in a whisper) if we use kevin's college fund, we can afford this house. the house whisperer! this house says use realtor.com to find options within your budget. good luck young man. realtor.com to each their home.
hey bud. wow. what's all this? hawaii was too expensive so i brought it here. you know with priceline you could actually take that trip for less than all this. i made a horrible mistake. ♪ go to your happy price ♪ ♪ priceline ♪ >> we don't have any.
maisha: shared leadership has to do with... michael: acknowledging parents as equal partners. narrator: california's community schools. grant: community schools lift the voices of folks that have traditionally not been heard whether they're parents, students, community groups. john: it's shared decision-making with parents. they're saying that these are the priorities that they want to see for their kids. wendy: it allows us to create the school that our students deserve. rafael: community schools are innovative, and they're working. narrator: california's community schools: reimagining public education.
comment we don't have any comment. please departs we can go to our waiting taxicab. that was all we got today from the lawyers for donald trump as they left a meeting of some sort at the u.s. department of justice in washington, d.c.. you might remember two weeks ago, the trump legal team publicly asked for a meeting with attorney general merrick garland. the former president said he was being treated unfairly by the special counsel. who are looking into trump's handling of presidential records including classified documents. the fbi reported finding those documents in a search of mar-a-lago last year. while the trump lawyers today did not get the meeting they wanted with the attorney
general or with the deputy attorney general they did meet with a group of justice department officials who included at least one career prosecutor and also included the special counsel himself. jack smith. moments after that meeting let's out the former president him self posted ashowtoday barely literate misspelled message in all capital letters on social media which is said, in part, how could the justice department possibly charge me? who did nothing wrong, when no other president, misspelled, were charged. he used to channel more of a six like excitement to do exclamation points. now it all goes into capital letters. pretty soon he is just going to be emojis. pooh-pooh volcano hammer. bonnie. the federal grand jury in d.c. is expected to come back this week from a sort of break they've been on and this was to start and again in the mar-a-lago documents case and i don't know that mean in terms
of the overall trajectory of the case. there is a lot of speculation but we will not know about what is happening before the grand jury until the grand jury speaks. also another federal grand jury 's meeting in florida on something related to trump although we do not know what. new york times reports tonight that federal prosecutors there are expected to question a a witness before that photograph federal granted early this week. and then we don't know what is going on before that jury until the grand jury speaks. which is almost always only with an indictment. if they're going to speak at all. right on time bloomberg news reports tonight that trump is looking to add new lawyers to his already large legal team. specifically looking for lawyers with federal trial experience. which if nothing else means they are planning ahead for a potential federal trial. not your typical start to a republican presidential primary. but as ron sold might, say you go to war with the politicians you have, not with the politicians who might wish to have. joining us now is branded van de graaff who is a former
national security official at the department of justice. former prosecutor and special counsel mueller and i'm really looking for to speaking with you about this. >> my pleasure. >> the grand jury only lets us know what they are doing when an indictment is filed on the basis of the evidence they have collected. it is a secretive process which is not stopping everybody and their sister from speculating as to watch the various publicly visible actions around great storms and courtrooms and justice for what headquarters might mean. do you feel like the tylee free leaving reading is going on around these actions is accurate? getting an email about the federal investigative process? >> i think the tea leaves are accurate that we are going to see a charging document very soon which is indicative of the fact that the former presidents attorneys requested a meeting with the department of justice to try to convince them to not bring charges and the former
president's attorneys have more tea leaves and more signals than we do so i think it just is further evidence of the fact that is going to be coming down soon. >> i feel like a lot was made today over the fact that trump's attorneys had asked to meet with the attorney general. and they did not meet with the attorney general. on the one hand that means they did not get the direct thing they will request a. on the other hand, is sort of seems correct given that what they are complaining about is the special counsel investigations. it by the very nature of a special counsel appointment, that investigation is supposed to be separate from the regular everyday work of the department and the attorney general is not supposed to be directly overseeing it. is that fair? >> that is. right i would not read anything into the fact leoni general did not get that meeting because it is not uncommon at the end of an investigation for the department of justice to offer a defense attorney the opportunity to convince the decision-maker, often the u.s. attorney for the district, an argument as to why they should not be charged. that is all that happened here
ultimately. the special counsel was the decision-maker in the decision is not been made yet. >> in terms of what the federal grand jury process is here, and i would see this i, that it seems like there are a few different slices over boost to look at. when is a federal grand jury this meeting in washington looking at the handling of classified documents in the stuff that was seized at mar-a-lago. based on the rim and that special counsel jack smith had assigned i believe that there is also a federal investigator at some stage that is looking at the former president trying to overturn the election results and how to better contribute to january 6th. now we're also hearing that there is a federal grand jury that is at work in florida. it would seem that is related to the classified documents prior to this investigation but again, it feels very opaque and hard to parse from the outside but what did you make a terms
of what has been publicly knowing about what special counsel, excuse, me what grandeur meeting wherein what they're looking at? >> a couple of things. one is we need to be careful about over interpreting what piece of information we get. i think in terms of florida it does seem just the fact that we are talking about florida very likely connected to mar-a-lago. and i think they are perhaps three possibilities. what is this possibly mar-a-lago case could be charged in florida. there would be the ability to bring those charges there. i would still speculate is more likely to see those charges in d.c.. the second is that special counsel just simply wanted to obtain the testimony of an individual in florida in for convenience purposes chose to get that testimony in florida for when a grand jury testimony connected to another grand jury. these are possibilities are other charges they're making with other individuals who may be charged and perhaps florida is the appropriate venue to be charged as individuals.
>> from a prosecutors perspective, is their disadvantage to having relayed indictments brought in multiple jurisdictions if there was going to be a d.c. indictment and florida indictments, for that matter, is there an advantage to bringing your incitement in d.c. versus bringing in florida? >> well, a few pieces. there are certainly would be a preference to bring these charges combined into one but i think that in fact it gets to be other points as well it with reading the tea leaves which is that time is of the essence and the department of justice, it is incumbent on them to try this case if they're going to be charges. probably before march. and lynn over, every week that goes by it makes that increasingly challenging to bring one of these cases involving the espionage act and classified information 7 to 8 months. that is very challenging and so every week that goes by i think it makes it increasingly difficult to commit to that goal. >> brandon van grack, very
helpful perspective on. that thank you for taking time for that. it was great to have you on here. we'll be right back. right back.


every day, more dog people, and more vets are deciding it's time for a fresh approach to pet food. they're quitting the kibble. and kicking the cans. and feeding their dogs dog food that's actually... well, food. developed with vets. made from real meat and veggies. portioned for your dog. and delivered right to your door. it's smarter, healthier pet food.
when the davises booked their vrbo vacation home, they didn't know about this view. or the 200-year-old tree in the backyard. or their neighbors down the hill. but one thing they did know is exactly how much they'd pay. because vrbo is different. you see the total price up front. >> protein is the absence today of course, it's good to leave room for some surprises. boo! ♪ of a self inflicted financial disaster for the u.s. economy. today things did not self annihilated and irreversible economic fireball of doom. it was a good day. and that is because over the weekend, president biden signed the bipartisan deal passed by congress to raise the u.s. debt
ceiling. to keep the u.s. government paying its bills, thereby avoiding irreversible self-inflicted devastating economic catastrophe. today, in the white house room where that deal was crafted, my beloved colleague lawrence o'donnell interviewed the white house team who helped negotiate that deal for their boss. president biden. >> the president has done this, you know, his entire career. that is his superpower and he really doesn't know how to negotiate and what to the considerations are that have to be balanced so if you can steer both on both sides. and really establishing a framework that we couldn't negotiate within. we've made a difference so that we can get this done. that is really where it begins and ends. >> as you can tell even just from that clip, the biden administration clearly consider the debt ceiling deal a big
victory for. them a victory for the country but also a big political victory for the president and of course in some ways it is also a victory for the guy who was on the other side of the negotiating table from them. republican house speaker kevin mccarthy, who does get to enjoy a little slate of good headlines about himself for the first time in his adult life. with this deal being signed and disaster averted, really the only people in politics who seem unable to declare victory right now are the republicans who oppose they are being a deal. which i think is fair to say is a problem for the republican party going forward. just as a general matter is not awesome to be on record as being in favor of disaster when other people were working to make sure the disaster did not happen. but heading into the next year of politics it is a problem that nearly every single one of their declared candidates for president is on record as opposing the debt ceiling deal. and instead siding with the far-right republicans in
congress who did not want a deal. beside that lost when the american economy won. it is hard to spin your opposition to saving the american economy as a good thing. right? especially when it is, like the whole field of candidacy or putting forward for president. on the other hand one in politics when counseling if you talk about. it's today, a democratic group that supports the biden agenda began running a new ad about president biden's role in brokering the deal. here it is. >> the economy was at risk of collapse. held hostage by maga republicans and their threat of a catastrophic default if their extreme demands weren't met. but president biden stood firm and negotiated a bipartisan compromise that protects social security and medicare for seniors. expands benefits for veterans and their families. and preserve medicaid for those in need. thanks to president biden the american people have an economy that works for them.
>> i assure you that is a political documents because for my entire adult life democrats have been very shy about self promotion. they thought it was rude to remark publicly on things you've done well. there is nothing shy about that. tonight you can watch the full interview with the white house team about how the debt ceiling deal came together. that will be on the last word with lawrence o'donnell which is right after me. trust me you will want to stick around for that. stay with us. enough was enough. i talked to an asthma specialist and found out my severe asthma is driven by eosinophils, a type of asthma nucala can help control. now, fewer asthma attacks and less oral steroids that's my nunormal with nucala. nucala is a once-monthly add-on injection for severe eosinophilic asthma. nucala is not for sudden breathing problems.
allergic reactions can occur. get help right away for swelling of face, mouth, tongue, or trouble breathing. infections that can cause shingles have occurred. don't stop steroids unless told by your doctor. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection. may cause headache, injection site reactions, back pain, and fatigue. talk to your asthma specialist to see if once-monthly nucala may be right for you. and learn about savings at nucala.com there's more to your life than asthma. find your nunormal with nucala. the chase ink business premier card is made for people like
sam who make...? ...everyday products... ...designed smarter. like a smart coffee grinder - that orders fresh beans for you. oh, genius! for more breakthroughs like that... ...i need a breakthrough card... like ours! with 2.5% cash back on purchases of $5,000 or more... plus unlimited 2% cash back on all other purchases! and with greater spending potential, sam can keep making smart ideas... ...a brilliant reality! the ink business premier card from chase for business. make more of what's yours. first, there's an idea and you do something about it for the first time with godaddy. then before you know it, (it is a life changer...) you make your first sale. small business first. never stopped coming. (we did it!) and you have a partner that always puts you first way. (no way!) start today at godaddy.com.
♪ ♪ make your dream car...a reality. mercedes-benz certified pre-owned vehicles are rigorously inspected to live up to the highest of expectations. bridgett is here. she has no clue that i'm here. she has no clue who's in the helmet. are you ready? -i'm ready! alright. xfinity rewards creates experiences big and small, >> that is going to do it for and once-in-a-lifetime.
me for now but now it is time for the guy that i would talk you over the last few minutes. now it is time for the last word with lawrence o'donnell. >> hey,rachel. and thank you for that. we taped this interview with the white house negotiating team in the room where it happens. today. and i could still be there. i cou