that does it for me tonight. jen psaki will be back from vacation for next week's shows. be sure to join me and simone sanders toundzened on the weekend on msnbc.now, it's time this thing over torachelmaddow. good evening,rachel. >> good evening, mr. michael steele. it's so nice to see you there in that chair. how's it feel being here in primetime at night? >> the pressure is enormous. but i'm having fun. and so i'm going to leave all the breaking news to you, my friend. because it was breaking there for a moment. but i know you got it.
>> we arranged for all of that to happen in that hour as hazing for you. you're in the frat, don't worry. >> thank you,rachel.   and thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. really happy to have you here. right off the top, there has been breaking news in the last hour or so. in a couple of the legal cases involving former president donald trump, one of these we have been watching for a few weeks. he lost a big fraud case against his company a few weeks ago. there were huge financial penalties he was ordered to pay in that case. he is going to appeal the judgment, going to appeal the ruling in that case. but he in the meantime has to put up a bond while he files that appeal. we have been watching this because the amount of the judgment against him was so huge, the bond he has to put up is huge, roughly a half billion dollars. so his lawyers told the court as
the deadline for filing the bond, for posting the bond approached, his lawyers told the court that they had been unable to obtain a bond. they said they had reached out to 30 different insurance companies but nobody would help him post a bond of that size. at that point, it looked like new york's attorney general, who brought this fraud case in the first place, the a.g. might be about to start seizing trump's bank accounts and seizing his properties to secure the judgment. but then, you may recall, there was sort of a last-minute reprieve for trump. a new york appeals court lowered the bond to less than half of what had originally been ordered. they did not explain why they were doing that, but that's what they did. they brought the bond amount down from nearly $500 million to $175 million. that would be all that trump would have to put up while he appeals this fraud judgment against him. they also in addition to reducing the amount he had to put up, they gave him more time.
the deadline was extended so he would have until later this week to put up that new $175 million bond. well, as of this last hour, we just got confirmation in court documents that trump has posted that reduced amount of bond. he secured a $175 million bond through something called night specialty insurance company in los angeles. knight, knight specialty insurance. that company is part of an insurance group that is chaired by a major republican donor. make of that what you will. but that move tonight would appear to mean that the former president has satisfied his financial obligations in that huge fraud case for now, at least, until his appeal is heard and that is not expected to be at least until this fall. so that's one of the two big developments that's just happened this evening. there's another. in trump's other new york state case, which is a criminal case,
not a civil case, this is the hush money case that is due to start two weeks from today, the judge in that case has tonight just issued an expanded gag order on mr. trump. last week, this judge issued an order that banned trump from attacking witnesses or prosecutors or jurors or court staff, as well as their relatives. after that gag order, trump started publicly attacking not only the judge who actually is and remains sort of fair game for criticism under the gag order, but he also repeatedly went after the judge's daughter, including identifying her by name on social media. now, the new york district attorney, the prosecutor has brought this case, asked the judge to expand the gag order to include family members of the judge and family members of the d.a., of the prosecutor. tonight, the judge has done just that. so again, the gag order still doesn't apply to the judge
himself or the prosecutor himself, but it does now include their families. in expanding the gag order in that way, the judge did not mince words. he said tonight, quote, this pattern of attacking family members of presiding jurists and attorneys assigned to his cases serves no legitimate purpose. it merely injects fear in those assigned or called to participate in the proceedings that not only they but their family members as well are, quote, fair game for defendant's vitriol. the average observer must now after hearing defendant's recent attacks draw the conclusion that if they become involved in these proceedings even tan gentally, they should worry not only for themselves but for their loved ones as well. such concerns will undoubtedly interfere with the fair administration of justice and constitutes a direct attack on the rule of law itself. again, that case, that criminal case, the first ever criminal case brought against a former president of the united states,
it is slated to get under way in a new york courtroom two weeks from today. that's when jury selection will start. the judge tonight making clear that attacks on his family members, family members of the prosecutor, will hence forth not be tolerated and will be subject to punishment by the court if they continue. so both of those stories breaking within the last hour or so. we'll keep you apprised if there is further development in the story. there's no reason in legal terms why there should be further development, but you never know when it's about misbehavior and attacking people and trying to meddle withthe rule oflaw. sometimes these thins develop in a way the sheer docket could not predict. >> all right, did you ever hear the one about the cartier jewelry, the shopping spree at cartier in new york city? this was a fake story but a good one. the fake story was that when the
president of ukraine came to new york city to give a speech to the u.n. general assembly, the story was his wife who came to new york with him, she spent her time in new york at cartier. buying over a million dollars worth of jewelry for herself. now, this of course is meant to be a shocking story, right? oh, we shouldn't give ukraine any more support. nobody should. clearly, the leaders of ukraine are just stealing it all so they can buy diamond rings for themselves or whatever. totally fake story. it originated apparently in russia. no surprise. it was a pretty obvious fake from the outset, even though it had all this detail that was supposed to make it more believable. the detail didn't help. the day on which this person was supposed to have bought all this jewelry at cartier was a day that she and her husband were not in new york, and that was very public knowledge because they were doing lots of public events in a whole different country on that day. they were in canada on the day
this supposed shopping spree happened in new york city. so it was obvious, including in the supposed damning details from the very outset. but lots of people spread that story around. in the united states, one english language russian disinformation site in particular, one that is supposed to look like an american news site, a site called dc weekry, that was particularly effective at spreading that fake story about the cartier jewelry shopping spree that never happened. then a couple months later, d.c. weekly was doing another one of them, same idea. another totally fake but good story. this time it wasn't cartier jewelry, this time it was yachts. big boats. this story, again, fake story, included a photo of these two big yachts that you could look up by name on the internet. they're real yachts. but the fake story about them was that this time, these two yachts had been bought by the
president of ukraine himself. so it wasn't the wife buying jewelry. this time, it was the president of ukraine himself buying boats. $75 million he spent buying these two yachts. and again, the whole point of this fake story is very obvious. right? russian disinformation site is spreading this around, russia obviously wants people to believe this story. they want people to think, oh, why should we, why should anyone keep providing support to ukraine to fight back against russia having invaded them, why should ukraine get any support from any other country? they're just stealing the support. they're stealing the money, buying yachts with it. and don't i remember hearing something else about them buying diamond rings with it, too? just like the jewelry one was obviously false, the supposed details of it were easily disproven, same thing with the fake story about the yachts. i mean, there were two yachts that were supposedly at the center of the scandal.
again, the details are supposed to make it more believable, right? these are real yachts you can look up on the internet machine. but the story was these were just sold to the leader of ukraine. again, both these boats exist. they're real, they're a knowable thing. they are both for sale now, though. because they have not just been sold to the president of ukraine. or to anyone. ukraine didn't buy them. he didn't buy them. the president of ukraine has no yachts. it's a fake story that appears to have originated in russia, created for pretty obvious reasons. you don't have to think this through. the strategy behind this is as obvious as a brick. you're waging war on another country if you can spread lies about that other country and make their allies around the world stop supporting them, then you will cut off their support and their supplies sooner and
beat them in the war. it's very simple stuff, obvious why russia would be doing stuff, even if they're doing it so ham-handedly. the strategy is painfully obvious. the execution is obviously fake. and i mentioned that the yachts fake story was spread by the same russian disinformation site that the jewelry fake story was spread by. when you start seeing multiple fake easily disproven, widely discredited stories spread by the same entity that itself is a red flag, makes it all even more obviously fake. but you know, when it came to the yachts one, republican senator j.d. vance of ohio decided he believed it. he decided to take that one and run with it. he spread that story himself, the yachts one. he mentioned it as if it was a true thing on steve bannon's podcast. while senator vance was there
talking about all the reasons that we should cut off ukraine and just let russia take that country and do what they want. we definitely shouldn't support ukraine anymore because they're just taking our money and buying yachts. republican congresswoman marjorie taylor greene, not only spread the same story about the yachts. she linked to a version of it. she decided to spread it online, directing her followers to follow the link that she posted to a russian think tank. a russian think tank that the state department quite recently has described as a, quote, pillar of russia's disinformation and propaganda ecosystem. she's a sitting congresswoman. she linked to this site that the state department has publicly described as, quote, registered in russia and directed by russia's foreign intelligence service. the sbr. so on the one hand, maybe we can be happy that russia's disinformation operations that are targeting us and trying to
change our policies as a country, trying to interfere in our alliances, on the one hand, we can be sort of happy that these efforts are so ham-handed and so obvious and so dumb. on the other hand, some of our elected officials are apparently not put off by any of those problems with it. they're jumping right in. apparently, believing it all. definitely spreading it. even when spreading it means literally linking right to russia's foreign intelligence service. telling all your american followers, go here to check out the truth. take it from me, your serving member of congress. after the opposition leader alexei navalny was killed in a russian prison in february, russia tried another one of these things. they created fake audio recordings. they said they had intercepted fake audio recordings that purported to be two american government officials, two u.s. state department officials
talking amongst themselves about who america would pick next to be the new head of the russian opposition to putin now that navalny was dead. and again, the point of this was obvious. they're trying to make people think there is no real opposition to putin. anybody saying in russia they're opposed to putin is really just a creation of the united states. it's all real russians love putin. there's really nobody who is actually opposed to him there. it's obvious why they would do something like this. it's also obvious that this was another ham-handed fake. the supposed audio of these two americans hatching this plot with each other has them both speaking with really heavy russian accents. they're both americans who are native english speakers. they don't have accents when they speak english at all, but they have them speaking english like boris and natasha without the squirrel. still, you do what you can. and every once in a while, maybe you hit the jackpot and a genius like j.d. vance promotes what
you made up on some very popular conservative podcast and then it becomes a republican party talking point as if it's a real thing. you keep doing all this dumb incredibly trance parentally fake stuff, every once in a while, one of those guys will jump on board and help you get it done. it's all so dumb, it's often funny, right? it's often hilarious except when it's terrifying. a couple weeks after these russian disinformation websites started circulating the fake audio recording of u.s. officials supposedly picking the new head of the opposition in russia, the person that was mentioned in that fake recording, the man who the american officials were supposedly picking to be the new navalny, he was physically attacked in front of his house. by a man with a hammer. this is a guy who was already exiled from russia. he is an opponent of vladimir
putin so he can't live in russia anymore. he lives in lithuania. still, they found him there. he was attacked outside his house. sprayed him with tear gas, smashed him with a hammer, broke his arm, hospitalized him, nearly killed him. again, this didn't happen in russia. opponents of putin can't live in russia anymore. but opponents of putin get killed and attacked all over the world. because russia does whatever it wants, and whatever country in the world, no matter what their laws are. right? no matter even the threat of getting caught, they just act with impunity because they're assuming if they keep doing it, they'll get away with it. in spain, they just murdered the helicopter pilot who defected to ukraine. in germany, they shot a guy in broad daylight in a park in berlin. in the uk, they used a nerve agent to go after one guy. they used radioactive polonium to go after another guy. in the u.s., they were
reportedly trying to kill a guy in miami but they botched it. 60 minutes reported russian military intelligence may be behind the so called havana syndrome attacks on dozens of american intelligence officials and high-ranking u.s. government personnel. it's not the u.s. government saying russia is behind it, it's 60 minutes reporting as of last night, but it is troubling what they turned up. i mean, this is a rogue state. this is a country that is still holding american journalists hostage right now. evan gershkovich is locked up there for more than a year now. this is a country that is digging into deep new alliances with great neighbors like iran and north korea, including new reporting in "the new york times" that russia is now helping north korea revivify its nuclear program in exchange for north korea arming russia in its ongoing war against ukraine. even if they hadn't just invided a neighboring country and started the largest land war in
europe since world war ii, with everything else they have done and are doing, with everything else they are up to, is this really the country you want to be backing up and helping by spreading their obviously fake propaganda about cartier jewelry and yachts to make us abandon our allies? is this really the country you want to get behind and help out? of course it is if you're in the republican party today. because the other thing russia does today and that they have been doing for years now, is that they support donald trump. right? the key witness in the botched house republican impeachment effort against president biden has been arrested and charged with making up his key claims against president biden, prosecutors say he is linked to russian intelligence. in 2020, the similar republican efforts to stovepipe false claims about president biden into some kind of corruption scandal to derail biden's campaign against trump in the 2020 election, those claims too
were also false claims that were also tied to russian intelligence. those too resulted not only in criminal charges but also in that case in u.s. government sanctions. the election before that, 2016, of course, the efforts to target the u.s. election to benefit donald trump and hurt hillary clinton. those efforts resulted in u.s. government sanctions, it resulted in multiple federal indictments including indictments of multiple russian intelligence officers. nevertheless, they're still doing it. i mean, we reported here a couple weeks ago on the renewed efforts by russia to target american elections. once again, to try to promote trump's candidacy and to try to hurt his democratic opponent. and it's not like i was reporting on some obscure thing a couple weeks ago when we covered that story. there it is, headline in "the new york times." spate of mock news sites with russian ties pop up in the united states.
russia's still doing it. they're doing it again, and it is as ham-handed and embarrassing as it ever was. and they're doing it for the same transparently obvious strategic reasons as they do everything. the difference is this time, forewarned is supposedly forearmed, knowing it's coming should make us better prepared. except this time around, some social media companies, particularly twitter, have no interest at all in even trying to stop what they're doing to target the election this time around. and this time around, many republicans seem to have lost any qualms they might once have had about helping out with what russia is doing. even with the really obviously fake stuff. but now, here's something new. something new on top of that. it is no longer just russia. because why would it be? the way it's gone, why wouldn't other authoritarian countries who want to weaken the united
states, who want to denigrate united states and try to get trump back in the white house, why wouldn't they throw their hats in the ring today? it's not like russia has paid a price for it. russia appears to have purposed themselves a major chunk of one of the two governing parties in the united states. that's basically the price they have paid. for the republican party and the conservative movement, hopping into bed with them in a very serious way. that's cheap if you're willing to buy it. and so of course, it's no longer just them. headline today in "the new york times." china's advancing efforts to influence the u.s. election raise alarms. quote, researchers and government officials say china has adopted some of the same misinformation tactics that russia used ahead of the 2016 election. quote, covert chinese accounts are masquerading online as american supporters of former
president donald j. trump, promoting conspiracy theories, stoeging domestic divisions, and attacking president biden ahead of the election in november, according to researchers according to government officials. it shows a tactical shift with more of a willingness to target specific candidates and parties including mr. biden. in an echo of russia's influence campaign before the 2016 election, china appears to be trying to harness political divisions. some of these chinese accounts impersonate fervent trump fans including one on twitter that purports to be a, quote, father, husband, and son who is, quote, maga all the way. the accounts mocked mr. biden's age and shared fake images of him in a prison jumpsuit, or claimed that mr. biden was a satanest pedophile while promoting mr. trump's make america great again slogan.
here's one of these china linked accounts described by these researchers promoting that trump video over the weekend that showed an image of president biden tied up, hand and foot, as if he were being kidnapped or held hostage. here's another one of the china linked accounts showing a different video, one for easter, it's an animated video that shows president biden being assaulted and beaten up by a giant easter bunny. and i'm not going toshowyou the video because it's violence against the president of the united states, and yeah, it's for easter. isn't that great? but it shows the president falling down and looking hurt and being pummeled. "the new york times" reporting that researchers have linked this new activity to a quote, long running network of accounts connected with the chinese government. the accounts are not always great at disguising the fact they're actually chinese like in this instance where they're trying to look like an american account. you see the name at the top with
the little eagle and the american flags. it says liam. republican party, america first. american flags and american eagle. and this post is an attempt by this account to reply to a trump video with basically a big ata boy. 75 million trump fans can't be wrong. the problem with this is that they forgot they weren't supposed to be typing in chinese. they weren't supposed to be typing in mandarin. it's only google translate that tells you what it says. if you're trying to be liam, maybe toggle back to english before you post your compliments to president trump. the foundation for the defense of democracy which has done some of the research quoted in "the new york times" today, particularly about this campaign's operations on facebook, also notes that the influence operation appears to be active almost exclusively during business hours in china, during business hours beijing time. all their posts appear here in
for us what are the overnight hours, but those hours correspond to the work starting at 8:50 a.m. beijing time, stopping at 6:00 p.m. beijing time with an hour off for lunch from noon to 1:00 local time during which they don't post at all. so these are accounts and users that are occasionally lapsing into chinese or forgetting to turn off the settings thatshowtheir web browsers are set to operate in mandarin. they're operating on chinese business hours including a nice solid hour for chinese lunch. they appear pretty obviously linked to chinese government influence operations. but what they're doing now, this year, is trying to mess with our election. to try to help trump get back in there. and to hurt joe biden's chances. just like russia has been doing since 2016. and the trump years have shown
us thus far that we have proven to be, forgive me, but we have proven not just to be inept but spineless when it comes to putting up with this from one authoritarian country that wants the worst for us. what are we going to do now that it's two of them at once? both pulling for trump. joining us now is tiffany shue, a technology reporter at "the new york times" who reported about this and other stories on the same topic. thank you very much for being here. appreciate your time. >> thanks for having me. >> so, what is the evidence as you understand it that this appears to be linked to not just operators in china but to the chinese state? >> well, like you said, there have been some slip-ups in these accounts. several of these accounts are many years old. and for a while, they post exclusively in mandarin. the narrative is very pro-beijing. it lapses at some point into america is bad. all of this is in mandarin.
and then they go quiet for a few months. and then suddenly reemerge posting as liam or ben, maga all the way. i'm a husband, father, i'm 43 years old, living in los angeles. these very convincing accounts that are masquerading as americans, posting entirely in english. so they adopt these personalities that unless you're a researcher or a journalist, your entire job is to look for clues that you're not an authentic account. for the average social media users you're like, yeah, this is a person who supports president trump just like me. i'm going to listen to what they have to say. >> and i have been focusing in, in trying to understand this, on some of the elements of it that are ham-handed or appear to be mistakes, letting it slip, accidentally showing your browser is set to mandarin or sometimes accidentally posting in mandarin. that interesting detail that was identified by the foundation for
defending democracies about them posting mostly on beijing time except not during their lunch hour. i have been focusing on the things thatshowit to be chinese operations, but as you're saying, some of these personalities and the idiom they're using can be sort of convincing. are they getting better at this? are these things improving over time in terms of their ability to masquerade as american? >> oh, leaps and bounds beyond what the chinese used to be capable of. i mean, if the russians are seen as being ham-handed, they're like the teenager who is like, oh, mom, yeah, i was totally studying at the library and not drinking at a party with my friends. then the chinese for a long time were the toddler who was covered in paint saying no, mommy, i didn't just paint the entire wall like you told me not to. very enthusiastic but very see through. what they're doing now is a step change in their capabilities. the chinese used to spread this
narrative that was very pro-beijing, very much this is the beijing party line. china is great. you know, back all of our policies and our philosophies. a couple years ago, they shifted to beijing is good but america is also bad. so you see them start getting involved in the american culture wars, trying to weigh in on gay rights, on crime in the u.s. but what they're doing now is focusing on specific candidates, which is not something most researchers have seen them do. they're adopting these personalities that seem like real americans and they're trying to, and often successfully, generate real engagement from real people. i mean, one of these accounts was retweeted by alex jones. he has 2.2 million followers. so the idea that people including people who have huge audiences are interpreting these accounts as real voices is
pretty concerning to people who have looked at china as kind of an inept influence operator for a long time. >> it's concerning, not only that it's working but it's concerning to have what appears to be a state directed effort like this focused in this way at this time ahead of the election. it really does feel like we haven't learned much. but i learned a lot about it from you today and this reporting. i hope you come back and talk to us as they continue this work. it's fascinating and important work. >> thank you. >> tiffany is a technology reporter at "the new york times." we have much more tocome here tonight. stay with us. tonight. stay with us jessie loves playing detective. but the real mystery was her irritated skin. so, we switched to tide pods free & gentle. it cleans better, and doesn't leave behind irritating residues. and it's gentle on her skin. tide free & gentle is epa safer choice certified. it's got to be tide. starting a business is never easy, but starting it 8 months pregnant... that's a different story. with the chase ink card, we got up and running in no time. earn unlimited 1.5% cash back
on every purchase with the chase ink business unlimited card. make more of what's yours. (fisher investments) in this market, you'll find fisher investments chase ink business unlimited card. is different than other money managers. (other money manager) different how? aren't we all just looking for the hottest stocks? (fisher investments) nope. we use diversified strategies to position our clients' portfolios for their long-term goals. (other money manager) but you still sell investments that generate high commissions for you, right? (fisher investments) no, we don't sell commission products. we're a fiduciary, obligated to act in our client's best interest. (other money manager) so when do you make more money, only when your clients make more money?
(fisher investments) yep. we do better when our clients do better. at fisher investments, we're clearly different. hello, ghostbusters. it's doug. we help people customize and save hundreds on car insurance with liberty mutual. we got a bit of a situation. [ metal groans] sure, i can hold. ♪ liberty liberty liberty liberty ♪ in theaters now. (tony hawk) skating for over 45 years has taken a toll on my body. i take qunol turmeric because it helps with healthy joints and inflammation support. why qunol? it has superior absorption compared to regular turmeric. qunol. the brand i trust. sara federico: at st. jude, we don't care who cures cancer. we just need to advance the cure. it's a bold initiative to try and bump cure rates all around the world, but we should.
it is our commitment. we need to do this.

so the message is hard to miss. it's in all caps, bolded, underlined. you can see it here. it says ee-nuf, surrounded by an american flag that has been tattered and burned. the visual alone stops you in your tracks but the messages around the border are maybe even more arresting. they say things like you've got the most to lose, and bye bye roe v. wade, and fast track to fascism. on the bottom of the image is a simple request. it says vote. this piece of artwork was designed not just to be on posters, it was put on big billboards like this one along the highway outside of bull head city, arizona. enough of trump.
vote. this was part of a hugely ambitious get out the vote campaign ahead of the 2020 election, one that featured street art and billboards and projections on the side of buildings from some of the country's leading and edgiest artists. the campaign targeted voters in swing states with that simple message, varieties of that simple message, enough. meaning enough of president trump. one term is enough. in detroit and in pittsburgh and in orlando, there were billboards like this one that showed an older african american man alongside him, the words enough of trump. on street corners there were digital signs, some were very, very much to the point. this one says enough in spanish. enough. here's another. enough noise and lies. give me some truth. if you're recognizing the style
of this artist here, it may be that you are familiar with some of his other work. you know his name. shepherd ferry. shepherd ferry is a hugely influential and accomplished figure in american art. he produced what many people consider to be the most memorable piece of political art in this century. the iconic barack obama hope poster from 2008. and that 2020 election, shepherd ferry was one of the driving forces behind this ambitious get out the vote campaign. enough. we need democracy. urged americans in swing states all over the country to say enough to trump, to get out and vote. that was 2020. now, in 2024, shepherd ferry is helping spearhead another effort by artists to get people to the polls to galvanize people, to make people think, to make people act. together with the progressive organization people for the american way, shepherd ferry is hoping to move americans,
particularly in battleground states, move people to get out and do their part to defend democracy at the polls. the campaign is expected to launch billboards in swing states like pennsylvania and michigan and wisconsin and arizona. they're also going to do digital ads and radio psas. and the visuals behind the campaign this year are just as striking as they were in 2020, if not more so. one of them is this image from artist beverly macgyver with a uterus spelling out the word vote. also the work of mr. ferry himself. look at this. this one says defend democracy against fascism. lift every vote. vote. this campaign for the 2024 election starts tomorrow. shepherd ferry joins us live here next. stay with us. with us a's choice. known for its iconic 2% bha liquid exfoliant, has done it again. introducing new mandelic and lactic acid exfoliant. it's helped turned my skin from this to this,
and my skin feels so much smoother. my skin looks and feels so soft. 100% saw smoother, softer, brighter skin. for all skin types & tones— from the trusted experts in skincare ingredients. available at paulaschoice.com and sephora. definitely check out this exfoliant. it has completely transformed my skin. >> tech: cracked windshield? schedule with safelite, and we'll come to you to fix it. definitely check out this exfoliant. >> tech vo: this customer was enjoying her morning walk. we texted her when we were on our way. and she could track us and see exactly when we'd arrive. >> woman: i have a few more minutes. let's go! >> tech vo: we came to her with service that fit her schedule. >> woman: you must be pascal. >> tech: nice to meet you. >> tech vo: we got right to work, with a replacement she could trust. we come to you for free! schedule now for free mobile service at safelite.com. >> singers: ♪ safelite repair, safelite replace. ♪ love you. have a good day, behave yourself. like she goes to work at three in the afternoon and sometimes gets off at midnight.
she works a lot, a whole lot. we don't get to eat in the early morning. we just wait till we get to the school. so, yeah. right now here in america, millions of kids like victoria and andre live with hunger, and the need to help them has never been greater. when you join your friends, neighbors and me to support no kid hungry, you'll help hungry kids get the food they need. if we want to take care of our children, then we have to feed them. your gift of just $0.63 a day, only $19 a month at helpnokidhungry.org right now will help provide healthy meals and hope. we want our children to grow and thrive and to just not have to worry and face themselves with the struggles that we endure. nobody wants that for their children. like if these programs didn't exist me and aj, we wouldn't probably get lunch at all. please call or go online
right now with your gift of just $19 a month. and when you use your credit card, you'll receive this limited edition t-shirt toshowyou're part of the team that's helping feed kids and change lives. if you're coming in hungry, there's no way you can listen to me teach, do this activity, work with this group. so starting their day with breakfast and ending their day with this big, beautiful snack is pretty incredible. whether kids are learning at school or at home, your support will ensure they get the healthy meals they need to thrive. because when you help feed kids, you feed their hopes, their dreams, and futures. kids need you now more than ever. so please call this number right now to join me in helping hungry kids or go online to helpnokidhungry.org and help feed hungry kids today.

january of 2017, you may remember that he came into office promising to ban muslims from entering the united states, promising to build a wall on the southern border, promising mass deportations. you may also remember there were mass demonstrations against him, including the massive, massive unprecedentedly large women's marches in washington, d.c. and around the country, indeed around the world. one of the images that was
carried at those first anti-trump protests was created by the artist probably best known in the world of politics for his iconic image of president obama in 2008, the iconic obama hope image. but in 2017, it was this image among others by artist shepard fairey that was carried by people protesting at the outset of trump's time as president. it says, we the people. and then below that, it says defend dignity. joining us now is artist, social activist shepard fairey. thank you so much for taking time to be here this evening. it's an honor to have you here. >> thanks for having me. happy to be here. >> what are you planning for 2024 and what effect are you hoping it will have? >> well, i'm part of a group called artists for democracy, which is under the umbrella of people for the american way. and a group of us, me and several other artists, are all
hoping to save democracy, to keep trump from being re-elected, and to preserve this system that allows us to participate meaningfully and move towards a better future. i think the arts can really help to connect people with big ideas, important big picture concepts that resonate emotionally, and the arts help to define civilization and i think they can help to save it. so that's what we're trying to do. no civilization without, as we know it, without democracy. >> you're not a stranger to this kind of work. either conceptually, i know a lot of these concepts undergird your work in general but also in these efforts along elections and important political moments to try to use the arts to move people.
and i mean that in multiple senses. do you feel like over time your thinking about it has changed? that you have seen things that work in ways that you might not have expected or reactions to things that weren't necessarily what you would have anticipated when you were creating the art or working with your colleagues to create stuff? >> well, for example, you showed some of the we the people images from 2017. that was at a time when the dominant narrative was that people were only responding to anger, fear, division, and that something that was about unity and inclusion and everyone having equal humanity and being equally american was not going to resonate. but it did. so sometimes i go with my feeling of if there seems to be a lack of addressing what's
really important to me that i know a lot of other people are feeling, that maybe putting that out there can work. sometimes it does. and sometimes it doesn't. i believe that my work is an ongoing dialogue with people of this country and the world. and i'm learning all the time, but i really trust my instincts around my hope and my optimism that we are better than some of the dominant narratives really suggest. >> do you feel like the sort of conventional wisdom, the common wisdom that, i mean, it sounds like what you're describing about 2017, that the democratic base for lack of a better term is demoralized, that people aren't motivated to vote to try to save democracy, or to try to keep our system of government for all its flaws, that division
is more motivating, that hatred is more motivating that inclusion and solidarity? do you take issue with that conventional wisdom? do you feel like you have a more hopeful view of things or are you kind of banking on it but not sure it's there? >> i'm banking on it because i think that i have to. i think we all have to. but we have to not just bank on it. we have to be vigilant. and so my strategy is to remind people what's at stake. and i think that when people understand that if they want to pursue something better in the long term, even something they're not super excited about in the short term, that you know, allows the preservation of democracy and a better result if they remain vigilant in the long term, reminding them of the promise of that and that we all
have not just a privilege to participate in democracy but an obligation to make democracy function by voting, by educating ourselves on the issues. and none of that is super exciting for a lot of people, but what i try do is i try to make images that connect with people's sense of, you know, just their better humanity. nurturing the better side of their humanity with images is what i'm hoping to do. >> contemporary artist, social activist, shepard fairey, it's an honor to have you here. thank very much for being here and good luck with the campaign. >> thanks so much for having me,rachel. >> all right. starts tomorrow.   we'll be right back. stay with us. it's time for a fresh approach to pet food. developed with vets. made from real meat and veggies.
portioned for your dog. and delivered right to your door. it's smarter, healthier pet food. - i'm norm. - i'm szasz. [norm] and we live in columbia, missouri. we do consulting, but we also write. [szasz] we take care of ourselves constantly; it's important. we walk three to five times a week, a couple miles at a time. - we've both been taking prevagen for a little more than 11 years now. after about 30 days of taking it, we noticed clarity that we didn't notice before. - it's still helping me. i still notice a difference. prevagen. at stores everywhere without a prescription. after advil: let's dive in! but...what about your back? it's fineeeeeeee! [splash] before advil: advil dual action fights pain two ways. advil targets pain at the source, acetaminophen blocks pain signals. advil dual action.
one in five children worldwide are faced with the reality of living without food, no family dinners, no special treats, not enough energy to play. all around the world, hunger is affecting children's physical and mental health. toddlers are suffering from acute malnutrition, which stunts their growth. kids are forced to drop out of school so they can help support their families. conflict, inflation and climate have ignited the worst famine in our lifetime, and we are fed up! fed up that hunger devours dreams. fed up, that hunger destroys joy. fed up with the fact that hunger eats childhood. help us feed the futures of children all over the world by visiting getfedupnow.org. for as little as $10 a month, you can join save the children as we support children and families in desperate need of our help.
now is the time to get fed up and give back. when you join the cause, your $10 monthly donation can help communities in need of lifesaving treatments and nutrients, prevent children from dropping out of school. support our work with communities and governments to help children go from short term surviving to long term thriving. and now, thanks to special government grants, every dollar you give can multiply up to ten times the impact. that means more food, water, medicine and help for kids around the world. you'll also receive a free tote bag to share your support for children in need. having your childhood eaten away by hunger is unimaginable. get fed up. call us now or visit getfedupnow.org, today. to give your teeth a dentist clean feeling. start with a round brush head. add power. and you've got oral-b. round cleans better by surrounding each tooth
to remove 100% more plaque. for a superior clean. oral-b. brush like a pro.
liberty mutual customized my car insurance and i saved hundreds. that's great. i know, i've bee telling everyone. baby: liberty. oh! baby: liberty. how many people did you tell? only pay for what you need. jingle: ♪ liberty. liberty. liberty. ♪ baby: ♪ liberty. ♪ [ chanting ] >> they're saying in hebrew what they're saying over and over again is the people demand elections now. you can hear those chants outside the parliament building in israel, tens of thousands of people have been protesting, calling for elections to replace
prime minister benjamin netanyahu and his far right government in israel. the protests on sunday, yesterday, was the largest single protest in israel since the start of the war, since the october 7th terrorist attack. prime minister netanyahu has he continues the war in gaza, he's under serious and it looks like it may be sustained pressure from these very large protests over the weekend and again today outside the parliament in jerusalem. that is worth watching in terms of the direction of the israeli government as their war continues in gaza. meanwhile here in the united states, republicans particularly in the house, continue to be whatever the opposite of constructive is on this matter. the latest example is a michigan congressman you have probably not heard of named tim walberg. he's best known if he's known for anything for having gone to uganda a few months ago where he told lawmakers there that they should stand firm and stay
strong on their country's new law that establishes the death penalty for being gay. the u.s. government has harshly criticized uganda and tried to change its policy. after uganda implemented it a new law to impose the death penalty for homosexuality, but there's republican congressman tim walberg going all the way there to tell them that law is right and they should stick with it and not do what the u.s. government is asking him to do. so he's a peach, and now at a town hall in his home state of michigan, he was just asked about the pier that president biden has ordered built in gaza to get more humanitarian aid in gaza by sea. now because of the way this was recorded at the town hall, you will not see the congressman, but you will hear him. listen to what he said.
>> joe biden looking to get humanitarian aid into gaza. i don't think we should. we shouldn't be spending a dime on humanitarian aid. it should be like nagasaki and hiroshima, get it over quick. >> it should be like nagasaki and hiroshima. we drop the atomic bomb. he said get it over quick. congressman tim walberg of michigan. the republican congressman is now trying to back pedal, saying he's being misinterpreted, saying his reasoning is the opposite of what's reported. if the congressman was going for some subtle or nuanced point, using the word hiroshima aclouds people understanding that nuance. i guess we await clarification. could there be such a thing? we'll be right back. it's doug. we help people customize and save hundreds on car insurance with liberty mutual. we got a bit of a situation.
[ metal groans] sure, i can hold. ♪ liberty liberty liberty liberty ♪ in theaters now. sometimes your work shirt needs to be for more than just work. like when it needs to be a big, soft shoulder to cry on. which is why downy does more to make clothes softer, fresher, and better. downy. breathe life into your laundry. harlem has everything. but i couldn't find pilates anywhere. so i started my own studio. and with the right help, i can make this place
i love even better. earn up to 5% cash back on business essentials with the chase ink business cash card. make more of what's yours. ♪♪ imagine a future where plastic is not wasted... but instead remade over and over... into the things that keep our food fresher, our families safer, and our planet cleaner. to help us get there, america's plastic makers are investing billions of dollars to create innovative products and new recycling technologies for sustainable change. because when you push for smarter solutions, big things can happen.
you're probably not easily persuaded to switch because when you push for smarter solutions, mobile providers for your business. but what if we told you it's possible that comcast business mobile can save you up to 75% a year on your wireless bill versus the big three carriers? you can get two unlimited lines for just $30 each a month. all on the most reliable 5g mobile network—nationwide. wireless that works for you. for a limited time, ask how to save up to $830 off an eligible 5g phone when you switch to comcast business mobile. don't wait! call, click or visit an xfinity store today.   one last thing to squeeze in before i go, this saturday, this saturday april 6, live event, the apollo theater in new york city. me and joy reid together. i am told there are still