okay, a very quick reminder before we go on election day. i'll be at that big table along withrachelmaddowand many more you see on your screen right there. plus we'll be breaking down the results all night long. i'll be back here tomorrow night at 8:00 with a bigshowon our actual election eve. but for now, stay right where you are because there is much more news coming up on msnbc.   good evening. >> good evening. >> we are all here. >> the first returns are
beginning. >> the electoral votes have been mounting quickly tonight. >> 64 years of election returns on television. >> there has never been one quite like this. >> you want to see me neck the hell out of people backstage? >> turn it decade of donald trump. >> the future of democracy in the balance. >> i will do what whether the women like it or not. >> we are not going back >> the candidates deliver their closing messages. >> it is called america first. >> we are not a vessel for the schemes of wannabe dictators. >> full team covered withrachelmaddow, nicolle wallace, joy reid, lawrence o'donnell, alex wagner, jen psaki, stephanie ruhle and steve kornacki at the big board.
>> at the very end we find a type. >> msnbc special coverage of decision 2024 begins now .   for a brief moment, you were hoping that we were going to be hosting this on ice skates. [ laughter ] we are not but the prospect of falling down on our faces at any moment is is live as it ever could be. thank you so much for being with us. sunday is supposed to be a day of rest, but honestly, two days before presidential election, two days before this presidential election? here we are with less than 36 hours until the first polls open on election day. i already have not slept for a week. [ laughter ] which you can tell by looking at me and the fact i am punchy from the first lines of this script?
>> we love that. >> we are super glad to have you with us. we are ready for this if we been ready for anything. i'm joined by my beloved colleagues. steve kornacki will be with us in a few minutes. some of our best friends from here on msnbc will join us over the course of the special. in these final hours, the presidential, vice presidential candidates are racing across the country making final pitches. donald trump is due on stage any moment in a rally in macon, georgia. vice president kamala harris wrapped up a big rally in east lansing, michigan. georgia tonight will be trump's third swing state in one day. earlier today, he had rallies in both pennsylvania and in north carolina. kamala harris spender hold a in michigan starting at a black church in detroit and stopped to chat with voters said a detroit chicken and waffles join. she headed to pontiac, michigan, at up conversation for a barbershop. tomorrow, vice president kamala
harris has three rallies in pennsylvania while trump's campaign said he will make four stops tomorrow ending with a rally in grand rapids, michigan. it is very much the final sprint. and, we all know, sprinting is hard. at one point today at his north carolina rally, trump started talking about the republican candidate for senate in pennsylvania, looking around for him, wondering why he wasn't there. wrong state, big guy. you are in north carolina and there's no reason that pennsylvania senate candidate would be there. maybe have some and get you a coke. lots of events in a short and compressed timeframe. lots of different states. you can forgive a guy for forgetting where the frick he is. 75 million americans have cast their ballots in the selection. both campaigns fighting for every last vote they can turn out. until the actual vote counts
starts coming in on tuesday, all we really have in terms of knowing what will happen in the race is polling, and there's good reasons why you are hearing everyone this cycle, any many posters telling you not to put too much stock in the polls this year. there is a number of real reasons to think that, but for one thing in the last few election cycles, credible pollsters have had high profile misses. consequential misses in terms of world world expectations in important races. the question hanging over the this year is whether pollsters have adjusted their models to account for the previous misses. whether they adjusted their models correctly. another reason polling is getting the side i this year is the increasing prevalence of politically motivated sort of bad faith actors who are producing things that technically can be called polls but methodologically speaking they are more like garbage.
that said, they call it a poll. if you can get enough to post it particularly in social media, maybe you can change the way perceiving the razor there momentum of the quality the campaigns. garbage polls trying to create an impression their favorite candidate will win, that their favorite candidate has the momentum. the proliferation of those bad polls and the undeserved attention they perceive from partisans, particularly social media, that's another reason why your smartest friends have been telling you don't pay attention to the polls. it's a sound argument. that said, we are still in a news environment. in which there are good polls, and particularly, where in some states there is a gold standard pollster who appears to be unaffected by larger dynamics that are making everyone whine about the polls. the reason those individual pollsters get the gold standard
designation is because of their proven sound methodology but also because of their track record overtime in that jurisdiction. the proto-typical example of a gold standard poll is the iowa poll done by selzer in iowa. the polls that she produces for the des moines register in iowa, specifically the final iowa poll she does before each major election, her polls are known for their uncanny predictive accuracy. this is her recent track record. what you see here is in each election your water final poll said the result would be in iowa and next to that is what the actual result was on election day. as you can see, if you look at the senate and presidential races, since 2012, her polls of accurately predicted the winner senate and presidential races in iowa within one or two points.
there was a governor's race where things went a little -- but in senate and presidential races, you have seen selzer as a living bull's-eye. that's why lots of people had strong reactions when the des moines register selzer poll was posted last night. this is that poll and it's a shock result. it shows kamala harris ahead of trump at three points in iowa. the reason this is consequential to our psyche is if this is accurate, and if anyone is accurate, is likely to be selzer. it implies that harris might be winning iowa, three points granted is within the margin of error. it is three points. iowa is a state where neither campaign has spent any time or resources the primaries. they don't have ads of there. trump won iowa eight points in the nine points before. eight democratic presidential candidate has a won iowa since
barack obama in 2012. here she is with a lead. in addition to that lead, the polls internal numbersshowdynamics in terms of women voters, particularly older women voters that could again, if they hold have really major implications beyond iowa. the iowa poll shows women who are political independence favor harris by nearly 30 points. women over the age of 65 support harris over trump by 35 points. actually, look at this. this to me is even more shocking. with all voters over age 65, the iowa poll has harris plus 19 over trump. that is driven by her huge margin with women over 65, but even men over 65 in this polar +2 for harris. if the democratic candidate is winning voters over 65 full stop , we have a different race on
our hands that we thought we did. if that dynamic really is happening in iowa, there's no reason to think it's not happening in other states as well. it would meet a different scenario than what we have been talking about. that's why people talked -- freaked out about this one poll. because it is this pollster and she has her track record and this is out of estate when nobody saw it coming. joining us now is ann selzer. we know your time is valuable particularly on a day the poll comes up. thank you for being with us. >> my pleasure. >> let me ask first of all if i got that the wrong way if you see that differently than the way i laid it out for the audience. >> picture-perfect. >> okay. you have a sterling reputation for your ability to poll iowa. you been doing it for a long time. what is your top line take away from your final poll before election? were you as surprised as everyone in else by the broad
strokes of what you found? >> i don't see how anybody would look at those numbers and the history in iowa in the past eight, 12 years, and think these numbers could have been foretold. we did see some of this movement toward harris in our september poll coming out of the june poll which still had joe biden at the top of the ticket. kamala harris joined the ticket and gained, picked up 14 points, reducing that margin to just four points. there was some momentum there. we saw enthusiasm there. but, digging into the data, we determined it wasn't people switching positions. it was new people, perhaps a bigger pool of people deciding to vote. at that time, our definition of said likely voter who tells us they will definitely vote, and the numbers were especially notable among older people, among women, and among college
graduates. these are all groups that are tilting toward harris. it seemed like there was a get off the bench moment and get in the game moment. that may have been triggered by kamala harris becoming the nominee. >> one of the internal dynamics reflected in your poll i haven't heard discussed as much today is significant movement, it appears, since september with man. obviously, the gender gap is massive. the numbers among women broadly, women over 65, independent women are huge with the harris campaign. trump still has a margin, positive margin with man in iowa but that margin shrunk significantly since september. give us any insight into what's happening among specific subgroups of men, different age groups or demographic groups, otherwise, in terms of the shift towards man were his numbers seem to be weakening. >> well, it gets really tricky
to hash things out at such a detailed level. what i will say is the gender gap among women, the contest gap is 20 point among older women. age 65 and older. it's more than 2-1. it appears to be pushing it up. while men overall favor trump among men 65 and over, it's harris lead. i think there's something happening here, and it's happening within that 65 and over age group. i was on a different chatshowand one of the women from the audience talked about, she has joined the 65 and older cohort and how she feels she is politically different than the people at the top of that 65 and over. i thought, the cohort moves up the ladder, you know, and ages in to the older group.
people have a stereotype that older people vote republican and in past cycles that's true, but now we have a new cohort joining from the past cycle. i think they are sensitive to certain issues and potentially the six-week abortion ban in iowa that was enacted and came into force just this summer after the june poll was taken with joe biden on the ticket. >> it so interesting what you are talking about this dynamic with older voters. i want to ask whether there's something to say there about how likely these likely voters are to actually vote. your poll finds people over 65 to be tilting toward harris, as you say with women overwhelmingly so. she is doing better than trump with the youngest voters. trump is doing better with the middle-aged people. which of these voting groups boats the most? >> well, this is one of the things we track.
we talked to over 1000 people to get 800 likely voters. we know some things about the full thousand that enables us to calculate what we call the incidents. how many of all iowans in those demographic groups meet our criteria to be likely voter. you can do that two ways. you can say you have already voted. if that's not likely, i don't know what is. or tell us you will definitely vote. among the age 65 and over group, that incidents is 93%. out of 100 people in that age group, we talked to 93 said they already voted or intended to vote. among the under 35 age group, that incidents is 62. so, as i say, if you want a horse to ride on you want the older people because theyshowup and vote. >> iweb pollster, ann selzer,
appreciate the time you've taken to explain this. obviously, a national double take when these numbers first came out last night, getting your explanation of how it came together is invaluable to us. thank you so much. >> my pleasure.   at a time when pollsters don't have a great name because of how things have gone in recent years, i don't think anybody for donald trump today ever cast aspersions on ann selzer's ability to poll iowa. we will put this in context in a moment. we will talk to steve kornacki and have them put it in context with the other polling we are seeing including the new nbc news polling that's out it feels like a firecracker under the seat. that's not supposed to be there. >> when you're on a campaign, there are tracks. a small number of campaign see the tracks. the tracks are directional. this is getting through. how are we moving direction? >> daily tracking polls? >> yet.
usually the most reliable data you possess. overtime public calls for pretty close. then they became totally different after 2016. campaigns used to check how close the tracks were. this year, i can't imagine the campaigns view them in a lot of different ways. let me say, the best news possible in the cycle about polls is for harris' to be tied. your thing is you need every last human being who might vote to go and take everyone in the home to vote is eligible. it's a great thing for a campaign to have the polls tied. i'm not sure we will know until after tuesday whether that was ever true. there is no model postop, first presidential election postop. number 2, no one changed the models after biden left in harris. nobody went back and said we have modeled for two white men in -- of the same vintage, if
you will. [ laughter ] no one changed the models. what you were setting up is no one has a filter for the things that are not reliable models are intended to be. it's another norm that has been annihilated in the arab trump. it used to be everyone aspire to have a poll that resembled the truth. it's a norm that's been annihilated. the thing i would say about ann selzer, i was working with someone for her news was bad and i was working for someone whom her news was good. i never worked for anyone for her news to bear out. >> chris, you joked as you sit down, were talking about the iowa poll? i haven't heard anything about the guy will pull. >> i had a bar mitzvah last night and -- [ laughter ] >> excuse me, can i take a break? men over 65 are -- even in a
white state, you have to understand -- yet. it's difficult. >> not to cut you off but what we have seen is all the polling has been the same. silver had this thing that the odds of all of this independently coming out is one in 9 trillion which means they are hurting. what is happening? there are layers of methodological assumptions that go into pulling. when she said the likely voter screen, who do we think is a electorate? sample rates have gotten so bad that there's so much modeling on top of the raw data and those assumptions determine the outcomes. there is a sense in which all the polls are showing the same raise. a dead even tie. that might just be a sociological artifact of pollsters. it might be the race is tied. or it might be we are at the measurement methodological limitations of what we can know.
the thing about the polls, since we came out of the case, we want to know if the future what we can. there's people were rushed into the vacuum with goat entrails and tarot cards and divination's of all kinds. fundamentally where in that spot. i would like to know who will win that election. we don't know because the future is uncertain. >> the thing, i've been on the good end of the ann selzer polls. what she does is a little different than other pollsters which is what makes her, i think, more accurate. she pets him what she thinks he electorate is going to be and not what the electorate was. there's a lot of polls that are based on the question of postop's. people basing their polls in the 2020 electorate, what we saw in 2022 was different. women coming out of the woodwork who were republicans, yeah, never voted before. that is what her reputation is. we will see if this bears out. i don't think the harris campaign is betting on iowa in
the win column. the other thing i think if you're in the harris campaign you were looking at, they have struggled, struggled or been trying to make up gains with white voters, older white voters, as we know well because we discussed was not first in the nation anymore. iowa is a white world stay. if you're looking at that, for them, you feel maybe just vibes that are about states like wisconsin and states like rural pennsylvania where maybe she is doing better or may do better than people expected. >> i don't know if it distills that even more, but the fact there has -- there has been zero ground game from air their campaign. nothing done from either campaign shows whatever is happening in iowa is not in reaction to something the campaign has been trying to nudge in terms of the electric. it's emerging from the policy there. >> i think nicole hit on something that's not surprising. i agree with you.
the reality is a lot of the people who were polling in 2016 and missed trump, then reconfigured their likely voter model to lean in the direction of adding more trumpeters. they were so afraid of having been wrong in 2016 that i think you saw the locally voter model stripped right. you to have the entrepreneurial polls trying to gain people's brain out there and selling pro trump dragged. i loved what ann selzer said as she mentioned abortion. one of the things that's missing from a lot of the likely voter models the way they were built to lean to not miss trump voters is abortion. she talked about older voters including older white voters. this is a microcosm of what what america is thinking after three very big things that you cannot factor into any bowl. january 6, it's the first presidential election in which we are litigating january 6.
that has not been tested. you can pull it in the second is trump being indicted. there's no way to understand as a poster, how do i factor in how people might react to the idea of an indicted person. >> indicted and convicted. >> i go back and of send this 1 billion times, abortion is the x factor in every election after 2022. you saw in 2022, the first time voters had a chance to react. the reaction has been strongly negative and actually angry. that is in changing. the last thing i will say is she mentioned older voters. i looked up the age of boomers. boomers were born 1946, 1964 meaning they were form before there was roe and then they lost roe in their lifetimes. they have children and grandchildren. it should not shock anybody, doesn't matter white, black, or indifferent, people are reacting
to the loss of roe and it changes everything. if pollsters don't take that into account, don't pay attention to them. >> one other thing to watch with iowa, democratic activists and i were reacted by saying we don't think kamala harris is going to win iowa. if these numbers are a portrait of the electorate, then maybe we will win it back some congressional seats in iowa. right now the congressional delegation is two republicans editors of four republican members of the house. >> and they have tight races. >> a lot of pollsters are looking, i would feel good about the midwest. >> she said don't sleep on man. i have been saying that. >> i've been saying that my whole life. [ laughter ] bay i am done. i don't think we know how to cover men's views on abortion.
i have met men who have shown me pictures of their grandbabies with tears in their eyes. and i say so beautiful and he said what if something happened to my daughter? we don't cover it very well. i don't think pollsters have the first clue of how to ask man about that. it's invisible until tuesday night. >> it's a black box in the projections of how this will go.   we have a lot to get to. we will put this i will pull into the context of the other final good quality polls they have coming out like that nbc news poll that came up. steve kornacki will be here. david plouffe is on deck. we have lots to get to. to. with vaseline, hydrated skin is just the beginning. level up to even toned, radiant skin. new vaseline radiant x body lotion with 1% niacinamide. level up to even toned skin.



while the new shock results iowa poll from pollster ann selzer has been blowing up newsfeeds and for good reason, it's one poll and we should put
it in the context of what's going on broadly in the polling as we get into the final polling before election day including the big new poll from nbc news. the top line is it's a tie, 49 for harris and 49 for trump. even as he abc poll shows a national deadlock, there's a couple internal numbers that the pro-harris side is latching onto. black voters in the abc poll support harris by a margin of 87% to 9%. in context, that's a three-point larger margin with black voters than biden won in 2020. even so much recent conversation about this campaign centered on here supposedly having a slipping standing with black voters and the abc poll she's doing better with black voters than biden did. the nbc poll also shows a gender gap, 34 points altogether, women supporting harris by 16 and man supporting trump by 18.
perhaps that's not surprising on issues, harris having a 20 point lead over trump and the issue of abortion in the nbc poll. there's more here. this is part of the polling landscape as we get our final look before actual votes come in from actual voters on tuesday. let's bring in our friends steve kornacki who was made for this and who is standing by at the big board with so much energy and stamina to spare. we are looking at you at the top of the mountain right now. >> here we go,rachel. when it comes to pulling right now, that they sit -- the safest thing to say is there is mixed signals coming in. you talked about iowa, state trump won by nearly 10 points the last two collections at know when that des moines register poll, having here is slightly ahead. that comes as the national poll shows trump better position nationally then he finished in 2020 or 2016 and then he pulled
in either of those elections. are poll has a tight another national polls very much in this range of a tight race. maybe here's by one or two. that's a little different and it leaves open questions about what's going on in the battleground states, and perhaps, outside the battleground states. looking inside the nbc poll, there's a question of enthusiasm which always gets the variable of turnout. these are folks from the paula reid themselves with the highest level of interest in the selection. it's at 77% in our bowl. that is down a little from 2020. we had historic high turnout in 2020. this number when you look inside the lowest levels of high interest are coming from nonwhite voters. latino voters and black voters. you were talking about traditionally core democratic constituencies that could take away from democratic overall margins with those groups. it could be trouble for trump because polling is shown previously in expanding support with nonwhite voters, if he
starting to lose a potential voters that could be trouble for his campaign. then look at the issues and the climate we are seeing is what we have seen the whole election. harris asked advantage by far on the issue of abortion, 20 points over trump. trump with the advantage in inflation and the other one is the biggest trump advantage is the border and immigration. the gender gap, to put this in context, trump leading by 18 points with man. harris leading by 16 with women. if that is what you get, that's a gender gap of 34 points. the previous high in history was 24 points. this would shatter any historical record when it comes to the gender gap. there's this, you have incumbent administration harris is a part of and joe biden's final approval rating will clock in at 41% and that low approval rating is one of the reasons democrats who were anxious to
get biden out earlier this year, here's part of that administration and how much is that waiting her down. trump himself the approval rating for a former president seeking to become a future president in the final poll, when we ask people retrospectively, thinking back, do you know approve or disapprove of the job trump did as president, is up to 40%. higher than biden and it's higher than any reading we have ever got in and abc poll when donald trump was president. after leaving office, ticked up a little for him. will that be enough to put them over the top? early election day vote, the partisan disparities, others are finding this, democrats expect an early vote gets reported, especially mail-in vote on tuesday night, should be democratic advantages. election day vote is a question of how much of a republican advantage when the people who
vote on election day, with her what's good tabulated. we get away from the national poll to the battlegrounds. this is the running average. we've kept this this summer and fall of the quality polls and all of the battleground states. a couple things jump out. they are all close. you don't see a margin of greater than 1.9 points. you do see a bit of a north/south divide. we have seen it in the polling. trump lead, small but arizona, georgia, north carolina sunbelt states. harris best performance wisconsin, 1.4. 1.8 in michigan. the northern tier states. three tons of appointed pennsylvania. a north/south divide and if that holds, if that simmons, ultimately goodness for harris because michigan plus pennsylvania and wisconsin, if there are no surprises outside of the battleground, would harris equal 270 electoral votes. if the action is limited to the battleground, trump has to win
one of those three northern tier battleground states were the averages continued toshowharris with slight, slight leads in those days but then it gets to the question, if there are no surprises outside of the core seven battleground states we have talked over and over about, and that's with the des moines register poll really gets to. the question of what is happening in iowa itself. you talk to ann selzer and one of the questions is does it spill over to other states? doesn't reflect something, if this is what's happening in iowa, it might be happening in other states and maybe states we have not been talking about or the other battleground. a couple of ways to look up at this. abortion potent in iowa because the six week ban went into effect this summer. millions of dollars in spending. are not in the presidential race but congressional races were abortion is a driving issue. is this a state specific affect its limited more to iowa? if
this is happening in iowa? one thing to keep in mind, this will start lighting up tuesday with results. iowa on tuesday, i want toshowyou the history going back, this is an obama/trump state. dramatic swing from obama to trump. you had voters who were comfortable voting democratic, blue-collar white voters. huge white population that swung hard to trump. there are more obama trump counties in iowa than any other state in the country. i raise that because what state is number 2? that would be iowa's political cousin right across the mississippi river, wisconsin. it has the second most obama trump counties in the country and demographically, these are extremely similar states. large white populations. a lot of blue-collar, rural white populations, even the mississippi urea, you can find german dissent is common among
people. common demographic features and similar movement. we have not, for the most part, seen in wisconsin the kind of polling shift we just saw in the new iowa poll today. that's one thing to keep in mind. if it could be a state specific thing. if it is not but spilling over, this is a place where you would expect to see it tuesday night because of those similarities. there is the question of, so much of the polling attention, the budgets for polling have been directed to the seven battleground states. is or something going on in iowa? something going on that was undetected and could they be happening elsewhere? the early test to pay attention to tuesday night, 7:00 eastern, lotta polls will close in new hampshire. this was a state not in the battleground, biden won by seven in the trump folks thinks
it's closer than most are talking about. they sent j.d. vance there today. in 2016, clinton will go new hampshire over trump. none was closer than new hampshire. the margin was 3000 votes between those candidates. it's an early test for me tuesday night. we potentially misunderstood the non-battleground states. if we are seeing a surprise in new hampshire that would be a huge development. >> interesting in terms of trump's decision to spend last- minute campaign time in virginia raising the question as to whether they think that's on the map as well. steve kornacki, just the beginning of what will be a beautiful relationship over these next many hours. we will get back to later tonight.   we will speak with david plouffe. the architect of barack obama's two winning presidential campaigns in 2008 and 2012 and is working for kamala harris. we will get an update after a quick break. quick break.




and make no mistake, we will win. we will win. we will win. we will win. >> and, we will win it. we will win. we will win. >> and, we will win. [ cheers and applause ] >> the closing days and hours of the campaign, the phrase, we will win has been a newly energized theme of kamala harris's stump speech.
does the harris campaign have fact-based data-driven reasons to feel that optimistic in these final days of the race? we have exactly the person to us. joining us is harris campaign senior adviser david plouffe. it's great to have you here. we know you have stuff to do. have you gotten any internal polling in iowa? [ laughter ] how do you feel about that? >> i have the deepest respect for ann selzer. at the end of the day, the question is she catching something from a composition of the electorate? maybe a support, or women in particular going to perform better for us than even our internal data? our data suggests a razor thin close race in seven states where we have to have a great election day. late deciders in our data are choosing kamala harris. i want to suggest by 90-10 but
in a close race, if they are choosing you 55-45 or 60/40, that's a great thing. >> is or anything you are seeing that suggest the laserlike focus on those seven states has been too tight and there to be other states that are in play? we're seeing j.d. vance going to new hampshire and trump going to virginia and this crazy pole that is good news for you guys. are the seven states the seven states? >> yeah. you cannot chase your 350th electoral vote. one of these will be the tipping point state. trump, thing, himself is going to states that are not battleground states because he's not drying good crowds in the battleground states and that bothers him. i'm surprised they're sending j.d. vance cousin i think is more sane about things, but trump is gallivanting around because you see there are empty seats. people leaving. the act seems a little stale. >> when you talk a razor thin
the margins are, everything matters, right? i wonder how your thinking of a spell of referenda. given the fact abortion is moving people, women, older women maybe in iowa and elsewhere, there two initiatives and states that matter. they all matter but in arizona according to our nbc news polling trump has a 1.9% lead. it's his largest lead. there is a ballot referendum to fundamental right to abortion in nevada where harris has her tightest lead, 0.3%, there's a pallet measure for state constitutional rate for abortion that will be on the ballot. how are you guys thinking of those ballot initiatives as may be affecting turnout? maybe helping your candidate? how do you calculate that? >> i think in arizona is clear the ballot initiative will win and strongly. there is a huge pool of voters that currently might not be voting for kamala harris who
were going to vote for that initiative, so we are trying to talk to them. there is no doubt abortion will drive a lot about in the race and women's health care generally. i think that has been overlooked because some polls suggest it might be fading. in our research, it will draw participation, volunteerism, it already is, and turnout and ultimate coach. you look at arizona, that could pass by 15, 20 points. it gives a lot of voters to talk to who might not be voting for kamala harris. arizona will be very close. i know polls say 1.9 but we have closed well in the early vote there. arizona is in an era where there close races like georgia and i think that's where we will see again on tuesday. >> is good to see you. you have a big job. you could have been anywhere in the world tonight but you are with us.
we appreciate that. we saw steve walk through numbers where the recall memory approval of donald trump, the idea of his presidency is higher than the actual american public ever felt about his presidency during it. when you look at that and this idea is old ceiling of 46 is being projected and pulled at 48, 49, do you see that? do you have a path the win if he is above the 40 ceiling and at 48? >> we have always believed his ceiling would be a little higher this time. 48, 40.5%, that's not 50. we have always believed we have a better ability to get to 50. we are closing well. that matters in a presidential campaign. i can't overstate how important it is. it helps with turnout but for those 4%, 5% of people who have
not decided who to vote, if you are closing well, you will win more of them. when a race may be 48-48 we got in your winning late deciders, that's how you get to 50. the other thing, the last seven days of this presidential campaign, no one has closed this poorly in my view, presidential campaign history. >> trumped the worst ever. >> he is reminding every voter who has concerns about him or they should have concerns. we are picking that up in qualitative and quantitative research. >> we have questions for you on that point. can you stick with this? we will be right back with david plouffe, senior adviser to the harris campaign. arris c



we are back with harris campaign senior adviser david plouffe. i have two questions for you. puerto rico is garbage. general john kelly, he's a fascist. losers and suckers in his voice. i hear anecdotally people have heard those two stories. what impact do you hear? >> they have a big impact. seven nights ago, 16 locks from here, think about it, his closing event. like your presidential speech, should be flawless and it was
be the opposite. it's cause to his problem with voters because they say this is what i'm worried about. the puerto rican community is a huge constituency in pennsylvania into the battleground states. we have seen huge energy there. we could see a switch of 10%, 20%. the kelly comets are consistent with what's been a problem for trump. we tried to make the argument, this is even more dangerous than the first time. he is more unstable. he is more unhinged and wants unchecked power and the people who tried to stop him last time, none of them are around. it's marjorie taylor greene, matt gaetz, the kelly comments basically added to people's concern which is important. when you asked about his approval rating, their people who give him approval of his first term is still are not going to vote for him because they think it's too dangerous. those have been two major impacts. even today, we got all breaking
news on our phone of him two days out from a presidential election saying he wished he had never left. wished he had a sit in in the oval office. for these voters that still have not decided, that's the kind of character and behavior they don't want to -- >> i have a question about the cannibalization of the vote. we know donald trump previously , he described early voting as inherently fraudulent. early voting is bad. you must vote on election day. they have changed that in this race. they decided to push their supporters to vote early, and that has happened across the country. we have seen huge early vote numbers for republicans. how much of the photos a campaign believe is cannibalizing from election day versus what's cannibalized by democratic. >> a huge percentage. if someone would vote on election day and vote early, there's some value because you get the vote in the bank and freed up to volunteer. it diminishes the number of
voters you have to go to on election day. it's not additive. what we are seeing is there bringing forward their vote. we have always believed that donald trump's ceiling is a little higher but lower than ours. we believed he would have to do a tremendous job of bringing out sporadic and new voters who support him and we do not see evidence of that. >> elon musk and the back of vans with seat belts without seat belts can do it. >> a ground campaign will not turn a race but it can give you have a point or a point. you have seen the numbers we put out. this weekend and all seven adequate states, we are hitting every door we need to hit in the places where you are doing persuasion, we are not running into trump or elon musk people. >> senior adviser of the harris campaign, david plouffe. don't go to sleep. go back to work.   we will take a look inside the heavily fortified tabulation center in phoenix,
arizona, where ballots are being prepped for counting. we will introduce a new msnbc contributor who you will want to meet. that's coming up. 's coming up. protect against rsv with arexvy. arexvy is a vaccine used to prevent lower respiratory disease from rsv in people 60 years and older. arexvy does not protect everyone and is not for those with severe allergic reactions to its ingredients. those with weakened immune systems may have a lower response to the vaccine. the most common side effects are injection site pain, fatigue, muscle pain, headache and joint pain. arexvy is number one in rsv vaccine shots. rsv? make it arexvy.



welcome back to our special coverage on election eve eve. we are super happy to have you with us. we're hunkering down at msnbc headquarters. we have snacks, coffee, we have sleeping bags under the desk. things that come in packages that are supposed to substitute for showers, but they don't. we are preparing to bring a continuous coverage of the presidential election as long as it takes. we will not tire. we are not afraid. tomorrow, expect wall-to-wall coverage of the final full day of the campaign both during the day and in prime time. we will have the line above msnbc shows tomorrow night with all your regularly scheduled holes including, i will be here at 9:00 p.m. eastern. tuesday, election day, our special coverage starts at 6:00 p.m. eastern which is one hour before polestar to close and we get the first results. we expect a long, long night.
as counting continues across the country. particularly in the swing state of arizona are most ballots are cast by mail. maricopa county, the most populous county in arizona, there's so many races on the ballot in this particular election that the ballot is two pages long which means it will take that much longer to tabulate the vote while the whole country watches and waits. also in maricopa county, a six foot tall barbed wire fence around the tabulation center in phoenix. local officials physically fortifying the election center with panic buttons and drones and rooftop snipers, truly preparing for the worst. joining us from phoenixes nbc news correspondent liz kreutz inside the fortress, and said the maricopa county tabulation and election center. behind her officials are doing what's called adjudication of the ballots which means they're checking for potential problems before the ballots are processed for tabulation. it's great to have you with us.
tell us what you have been seeing and what's going on? >> reporter: we made it inside. it took layers of security and i'm sure you remember this view very well from 2020. we are looking inside the bella processing center right now. what is happening right here is two peers of election workers, one republican and one democrat, they work together to go over any ballot irregularities. they come to a consensus and we are told they become friends through this process. it's a snapshot of america. you can see there counting the ballots. it's interesting that anyone around the world can watch on a livestream what is happening in this room. since 2020, they added even more camas and livestreams so you can watch the step-by-step process of how it works. all of that in the ever for transparency to counter any more claims of election fraud
heading into tuesday, knowing it could take several days until we get results. to add to the idea the fortress, just getting in, two layers of fencing, a concrete barrier. multiple steps to call in and get inside andshowyour i.d.. this is where we entered. there is magnetic security areas you have to go through. the sheriff's department is here going through your bags. election officials spent $10 million over the past four's to make this place what they are calling the safest place to be in arizona on election night. >> in terms of the officials you were talking to, security folks and those doing the work that needs to be done, what is the morale i? what's the attitude like? a little unnerving looking from the outside and looking at what they had to do with security, but they have a job to do. it's an important job and in many cases it's a joyful job.
it's your civic duty. where are people's heads at in terms of how they feel about this task ahead? >> reporter: we have been told they definitely had long time election workers who said i can't do it this year and decided not to do it because of the threats they received. there have been some folks who, sensually it seems hazard pay. that increase some of their pay to make people come and feel like they want to be here and work through the election because of the facts so many workers received so many threats for so long. some officials said over the past year, the threats subsided, but the are expecting them to ramp up again come tuesday. >> liz kreutz, thank you so much. great to have you there and thank you for talking with people there. my colleague joy reid is standing by with arizona's top election official.   joining us is democratic arizona secretary of state adrian fontes. thank you so much for being here. let's start on the question of
security. we know back in 2020 after fox called arizona for joe biden alex jones and others showed up at the maricopa county election center, sums who showed up with the more jacob who we later saw as part of those who sacked the capitol and he has been sentenced. there has been a lot of drama and a lot of lies surrounding vote counts in arizona. talk about how you are thinking about the security situation going into this election? >> first of all thank you for having me. security has to be top of mind but it doesn't mean we lose sight of the fundamentals. we have an election to run. it's a little new paradigm we are existing in. taking care of workers, taking care of our employees and the folks who were maybe just here for a week or a couple of days are a couple of months to help us out, and also making sure
voters stay safe. they all have become facets of what we have done. we've got to stay focused on the fundamentals. we will be delivering a quality election is arizona always has done. in spite of the lies and conspiracies and misappropriation of the truth. we have done a darn good job in arizona and we will keep doing that and we have other things we have to focus on to make sure our people are safe. >> donald trump set off arizona, the only thing that can stop us is the cheating. the only thing that can stop us. he is already setting up his followers to believe there is something fishy going on in your state. we recall that comical but also serious pretend audit of your state's results after. as secretary of state, as part of your mission to get people
to trust elections and believe them when they happen and results are real. what's the process like of trying to walk people back from this lack of trust in elections in your state? >> first and foremost, we have to understand that what we are going through the last several years in the united states is a slow rolling civics lesson. we had some folks who raised doubts and told a lot of lies and capitalized on the ticket for granite attitude americans had toward elections. we didn't know the process that will. through the course of answering these questions, addressing the lies and attacking the conspiracy theories, we have slowly brought folks into understanding these processes better. that part of it must continue. we have to tell the truth and answer legitimate questions because some still don't understand the process completely, and that's okay. we are happy to explain but when people are lying, particularly elected officials and candidates, when they lie about a process, knowing better
because all of them know better, that's the biggest problem we have. >> the lies around voting in u.s. and the republican side tent to revolve around this lie that noncitizens are voting. arizona is a state that has a large latino population, american-born latino population, but suspicion often flows to people -- places that have large latino or black population. or the 2 million people have already voted in arizona. lots of early voting participation but you had a lawsuit in which he lost part of a case against stephen miller's outfit, america first legal in which they are demanding to see part of your voter rolls to force the state to prove noncitizens are not voting. talk a little about that case and where it goes from here? >> we are appealing that case because it's a public safety issue as much as anything. we do not want a bunch of extremists out there pounding on people's doors and demanding they turn over identification just because you know, somebody
in another part of the country thinks noncitizens are voting in arizona. which, by the way, is very very rare. it is rare those things happen, that a noncitizen might register and even more that a vote gets cast. it's not a perfect system. what we are doing is looking at a state in arizona where we have a bifurcated system that's different than the rest of the united states. every other state in the union, signature on an affidavit under penalty of perjury is enough to get you to vote. that's proof of citizenship that every american gives us. in arizona, in order to vote for all the races outside the federal ballot, governor, the way down through judges, you have toshowdocumented proof of citizenship. we didn't start doing that until 2004. the systems have never fully been supported by the legislature or any administrators.
it's a complicated way we do things, issuing fede only ballots and full ballots. it's a problem where we don't see the problem anywhere else in the united states. we have got to get it together on that but as far as the rest of it, we are in great shape and i must repeat, the issue of noncitizen voting is in -- it is vanishingly rare no one has ever seen any more than one or two and never had an impact on the outcome. that's another lie we have to get past. >> on this question and one of the other factors in people's claims of not trusting elections and the time it can take to count the votes which it has to be done. it's human beings doing it and it takes time. i am looking at an estimate that says 10 to 13 days potentially for arizona to get that result in. can you confirm that is the time line we are looking at? how long should we expect to way to know who is -- who won
arizona? >> 10 to 13 days. that's the way it has always been. arizona has always been 10 to 13 days. when john mccain was winning by 25 points, you could call the race on the night of and so everybody thought it was over but we were still waiting for official numbers 10 to 13 days. now we have tighter margins and a more competitive all it takes in arizona. that 10 to 13 days can be awfully sort of grinding on folks when they want to know the results. that does not mean we will not get projections much sooner. that is up to you in the media. our job is to get official results that are accurate, and that's what we will do. it will take about 10 to 13 days. >> we will know for the audience that president biden won arizona by just over 10,000 votes in 2020 and nbc projected arizona for about nine days
after the election. that's what you should be in for. thank you so much. >> arizona is lucky to have a person in the job who is as clear a communicator as he is given the national implications of clear election related communication coming out of arizona. adrian fontes, somebody to watch in terms of a future career. steve, we had the secretary of state of arizona confirm official results in arizona, they are expecting 10 to 13 days with larger margins, maybe the media companies could project earlier than that but that's not their concern. does that jive with the way you're thinking of arizona? and how should we set our expectations in terms of what we will know on election night? >> arizona is the state, suspenseful and the electoral
college is depending on arizona and at to that, nevada, one of those two states, it will be a while. if it's close in those states, for the reasons you heard in that interview, it's similar in nevada too in terms of it is a ton of mail-in ballots and they don't get all counted on election night or the day after and it becomes a days long process. if the count's clothes, a possibility of the results changing as the days of subsequent mail-in voting counting take place, those states will not be called. if they're crucial to the math we will wait on them. that is the long game scenario. in the other battleground states, the five eastern battleground states, a bit of a different story potentially from 2020. through tuesday night, 7:00 eastern time, the polls will close in georgia. the first battleground state where we start getting results, and we expect we will get a lot of results. in georgia they can preprocess the mail-in ballots, absentee ballots, they can be preprocessed. some states have to wait until the polls close.
it's cumbersome, verifying signatures. that can be done ahead of time in georgia and there's in- person voting which is relatively easy to tabulate too. there will be folks who wait until election day to vote and expect that throughout the night. you should have the vast majority of the vote counted in georgia sometime late that night into the very early hours of wednesday morning. remember, georgia's one of those states that it took so long because they had a flood of mail-in ballots in 2020. mail-in voting is down 75% in georgia, mechanically it will be easier. to tabulate those results in north carolina. carolina, the second battleground poll closing at 7:30 eastern. very similar. of the mail voting that takes place, that is down too, the mail-in voting and absentee to come fast and furious not long after the polls close at 7:30. seemed a vote will follow that.
as we showed earlier, expect the same day vote in north carolina and other places to favor trump, to favor republicans. put that on your radar in north carolina. what we expect is democrats will get their best numbers with the early returns and the question becomes, can trump erase that if democrats are ahead, with same-day voting. 7:00, you get this two. i'll skip pennsylvania and take you through the other two midwest states. michigan is the state they had massive changes to its procedures. a total overhaul. it took a long time because of the mail-in voting in 2020. now, it's new for michigan, the idea preprocessing mail in votes. that administrative work to get the ballot ready to be counted. they are already doing that and most laces in michigan. that's hh of 2020 and so is the fact that michigan unlike 2020, they have early in-person voting. tons of people we were seeing
or taking advantage. that combination of preprocessing of reduced mail- in voting and of that rise of early in-person voting, we could have again a clear picture of michigan on election night than we have had before. most of michigan will close at 8:00 p.m. four counties in the u.p. that stay open until 9:00 eastern but we will have results in the 8:00 our. wisconsin, this could be very dramatic in the early hours of wednesday. the wee hours of wednesday. a couple elections recently to explain it again. in wisconsin, they have something that resembles early in-person voting but it's not called that. basically, folks who are voting early in person or who are voting absentee, there are some cities in wisconsin where they take those votes and they count them at the end of the night in one location and all those votes get released. where that happens we will talk
about this as results come in, is the city of milwaukee. all the votes cast before election day are counted after everything else is counted. this happens 2:00, 3:00 a.m. or maybe earlier then it gets reported out. huge democratic city. biggest city in wisconsin. we have seen in recent elections, republicans leading late and having that absentee early vote released for milwaukee putting the democrats ahead. it happened with joe biden. the moment in 2020 when i realized biden shifted to the advantageous position over trump. when trump had a 20,000 vote lead in wisconsin, 4:00 in the morning that milwaukee badge came in at biden went ahead and realized he would probably win milwaukee. if it's close everywhere else in wisconsin we will be waiting on that. that will be a significant moment in the election. i left pennsylvania because pennsylvania is the biggest wild card when it comes to the
timing of this. in 2020, was pennsylvania that resulted in the election being called 11:30 a.m. saturday. what was at? because pennsylvania, covid emergency did vote by mail and they were flooded with vote by mail in part because pennsylvania doesn't have early in-person voting. either voting by mail or you are voting on election day. there's a shift this year but that's the brought contour of it. the key, pennsylvania did not change its laws. part of the problem in 2020, all those mail-in votes, they had to wait until election day to go through them. it took forever. they didn't change the law but with mail-in voting coming way down this year it will be less to process for these counties. they have more experience. a few elections since 2020 doing it and procedures in place in some of their big counties to continue counting round-the-clock.
he saw that happen in 2020 where they closed down at night. the potential exists in pennsylvania to be faster than 2020 but it's a huge wild card because with no changes in these laws, you are depending on the mechanics being smoother and maybe the folks running these to have more experience and a little know-how. we will see on pennsylvania. that will be a huge piece in the electoral puzzle. >> one follow-up for you on this. when you talk about the mechanics and the different procedures put in place, particularly once i changed since 2020, are these crucial jurisdictions that have important races that we will watch carefully where you feel they made some real inexplicable decisions in terms of new procedures or ways they will handle the vote that you are watching is a provincial -- potential bottleneck? the way they are approaching the county is keeping you up at night? >> there's a couple things that
were giving concern to some officials being held up by courts right now. i think they could've been wildcards. there is a procedure in north carolina about the early in- person voting that might have that delay. i am talking 15 or 30 minutes. i should say there is a change that is good in pennsylvania. there's one in terms of public knowing what is going on in pennsylvania, at midnight on election night, even if there's uncounted mail in votes, they have to tell you, the counties, how many total mail-in votes they have so we will know at midnight if it goes to plan, we will know with the universe is beyond that of mail in votes to be counted. that was a mystery as that process played out in 2020. from a transparency standpoint, that's what we will see, we will have clarity even if we don't have the votes in pennsylvania. >> that is very helpful.   a big split and polling.
on the issue of the economy and what it might mean for the election. three campaign veterans to help explain it. we have much more head on this special coverage. special coverage.



in the final nbc news national poll before the election on tuesday, it's a dead type. 49-49. part of harris from the pole's internal numbers. enthusiasm in the poll is high and rising. on the issue of who voters trust on the issue of abortion, harris has a 20 point lead over trump. mbc asked voters a couple questions on the economy and the answers were interesting because they were split. when asked generically is better on the economy, trump is a 10 point advantage. on the question of who will better look out for the middle class? it is harris who comes out 51-
42. nine point spread. i want to bring in our colleagues symone townsend sanders. michael steele. they will be here on election night. we are calling them our political insiders because it makes them sound like they are giving secret knowledge. stephanie ruhle is standing by with them. >> thank you. let's look at these numbers because not as an economist but as an insider, we know republicans traditionally polled better. trump has polled better on the economy nantz a first time mbc has the question on the question who is looking out for the middle class, we see kamala harris come out ahead. what does that tell you? >> all of these numbers tell me advertising and the communication strategy and the strategic direction the campaign employed has worked. coming out of the gate, vice president kamala harris talked about her economic message.
the policies are about the issues most directly concerning americans at this point. housing, prices at the grocery store. she's speaking to those issues and when it comes to middle- class, over and over, telling her story. that is what she supposed to do. trump is not the candidate i would ever want to work for. too erratic and uncertain andy never talking points. he would go like this and pick up his yellow pad but i know bernie sanders has been saying the same thing since before i was alive. because harris is on message, if you look at the ads the campaign is running in battleground states, that ads were introducing her. and then on there was, trump ads where she is distinguishing herself. people call those negative ads, the attack ads if you will but it's talking about trump's
words. the majority of the ads have been her policy. the economy. what she's going to do. do not discount the impact of people seeing those ads. >> let's stay with introducing her. in the first couple of months, we kept hearing we don't know if she can operate. donald trump, he's a failed businessman at talk about's bankruptcy but they say we don't know what she can operate. think of the last six weeks. kamala harris has run a basically flawless campaign. it's a business and she is the ceo. we are seeing donald trump day after day, week after week not just go off message but come unglued. how much of an impact is that having specifically with nikki haley voters? >> he came unglued because she was together. she had her's together. he didn't expect that which is
why in the beginning he pined so openly for joe biden. donald trump is nothing if not sensitive to the players on the chessboard. when there is a player on the chessboard he doesn't want to deal with, he wants it off the board. he wanted her up the board. you look at those narratives and what she did was she hit the ground running. she had an assist and the assist was suddenly, half 1 million people getting on a zoom call and raising her 7 million, $8 million. half a million getting on a zoom call but it was white women. first it was black women than white women. you are going, white women? in 2016, white women were buying the female president thing. they didn't elect when when they had one. she began to change the narrative and the thinking and that scared the but jesus out of donald trump. >> the economy. what's been happening the last
six months, inflation is cooling and interest rate cuts. trump was leading with immigration and the economy is a dumpster fire. the economy might not be perfect for you but it is not a dumpster. >> that was not a plus for her in the beginning. all that stuff was happening and it was cooling and numbers were getting better and everybody was screaming, look at the numbers. they are so much better and voters are like yeah but but i don't know who she is and i want to know more about her. she started that narrative story, that narrative journey and as she grew that journey, guess what else happened? she connected it to the economy. she started talking about an opportunity economy and talking about tax breaks for the middle class. she started talking about workers. she tied health care to the economy in a way that mothers looked and said, okay, tell me more. >> expanding the child tax
credit. >> she didn't lean in on the economy is so good. that's the difference between the campaign jovan was running in kamala harris is running. her campaign doesn't ever speak to the current greatness of the economy which is good. joe biden did this. her campaign speaks to the concerns people have about the work that has to be addressed. joe biden talked in the beginning, build back better plan she's talking about the better and that's the difference. >> tell us what you are hearing are thinking. you're a former lawmaker, just watching all of this, this group of mega donor's. other than we have seen, the likes of elon musk who is camping harder than any businessperson who might end up with an official or unofficial role in a donald trump administration. what do you think of this and what are people telling you? >> it is really scary territory. we have billionaires in this
country and if you look at the top 10 donors to donald trump, they have given over $1 billion . >> just the top five. >> yeah. and that was in counting how much more musk has been. musk is in pennsylvania and because he thinks he can do rockets and electric cars, he can figure how to get people to vote. he has a hard assignment because of people here trying to get her low propensity voters. they don't vote all the time. this thing they have done, let's get the young man, the reason they are bruises because they don't care about voting. they are really hard to get to the voting place. the one thing, talking to my friends and i have a lot of friends running, john tester and sherrod brown and bob casey, we got elected at the same time. they are dear friends of mine and i talked to them. one of the things that's helping at this point is the
low propensity voters, the feels voters. they make up their mind at the end. it matters whether they like you. you know what? my friends that i know, my acquaintances vote for trump start out by saying i can't stand the guy but he will be good for my tax break. i don't think america likes this guy and when you are in the privacy of a voting booth and you think of the things he says and what he does and chaos around him, that's the other thing she has done beautifully, she is now according to the embassy pull the candidate that represents change. i think most americans don't want another four years of that not lying jerk in the white house. >> claire mccaskill, michael steele, symone sanders townsend, thank you so much. >> lawrence o'donnell, talking about the way the campaign is closing, how voters are feeling, how that might affect
low propensity voters which a trump campaign is particularly targeting how it might affect the base interna? you were at "saturday night live" last night for kamala harris's surprise -- you mentioned it on the internet machine. how are you feeling? >> "saturday night live" audience does include low propensity voters. it includes young low propensity voters. the pole which i have witnessed or than ones which is to say a presidential candidate in studio for snl. i have been, i've had friends working there from the beginning. i have been hanging around there a long time. we had, the word was out there that she is going to be there, but i know, that's never true until it is true. all sorts of things could happen that could change that until the last minute.
when we were going up in the elevator, the fact it was packed with the uniformed secret service officers, the ones who look like a s.w.a.t. team with the badges and we had to get wanded by them before going on the night floor into the conference room where a lot of us watch it, with all of that anticipation and expectation and by the time you got through the secret service, you know it's going to happen. what happened in that studio when the audience actually saw her was the single biggest emotional surge i have felt in that room ever. that includes the rolling stones in 1978. it was really something. what i attribute it to is the fact we have had a trump presidency. this is the only person who is standing between you and another one of those.
as big as the stakes were before, when hillary clinton and others were running against this guy, this is the one where everybody in that room knows it could not be more important. also, i think there was this reward that was in the air of thank you for running a flawless campaign to get to this point which she really has done. just stop and think, when is the last time you had a democrat ramping up to election day and you were not hearing all sorts of unnamed democratic congressional sources in the "new york times" and every were complaining, should've done this or should have done that. there is not a single second- guess going out there about the weight david plouffe and that team is running that campaign and the way the candidate is running that campaign. last night, here on the eighth
floor in that studio, it did seem to be a moment where it was coming together so perfectly. when you look at that appearance, that's the campaign of positivity and joy and there was no swiping at donald trump in disappearance. there was none of that by her. nothing snide. just a positive presentation of her within that sketch. it was really remarkable. >> really a testament to how good maya rudolph's impersonation is. there is no test of that. having the person you are impersonating standing next to you, and it was like a magic trick. >> i can report backstage, the vice president got a special dana carnaby version of president biden face to face. there is no video of that.
>> can you re-create it? >> i wasn't there but dana told me afterwards and it was special.   up next. a special announcement. a happy addition to our election team on msnbc. we have that and more ahead.


it's our son, he is always up in our business. it's the verizon 5g home internet i got us. oh... he used to be a competitive gamer but with the higher lag, he can't keep up with his squad. so now we're his squad. what are kevin's plans for the fall? he's going to college. out of state, yeah. -yeah in the fall. change of plans, i've decided to stay local. oh excellent! oh that's great! why would i ever leave this? -aw! we will do anything to get him gaming again.
you and kevin need to fix this internet situation. heard my name! i swear to god, kevin! -we told you to wait in the car. everyone in my old squad has xfinity. less lag, better gaming! i'm gonna need to charge you for three people.   just 107 days after her
entry into the 2024 presidential race, vice president kamala harris will be ending her historic campaign at a place that's central to her biography. she will be hosting her campaign's election night watch party at her alma mater, howard university in washington, d.c. into us as a news organization it's important to know. we need to know were very important news will be coming from the campaign and candidate tuesday night whether a victory speech or a concession speech or a hold on, my opponent is about to give a fake victory speech but do not fall for it. we need to know where that is coming from. that location seems important. it has political significance and psychological heft in terms of where kamala harris decided to bring the campaign home. her own history at that incredibly important historic black institution. joining us now is michele
norris. you know her from a high profile service at national public radio and most recently have seen her name in the news because when the billionaire owner "the washington post" jeff bezos block the paper's editorial board for making its presidential endorsement, michelle noris resigned from her position as a columnist at the post but we can announce she's joining msnbc as a senior contributing editor and she will be there for us at howard university on election night. it's an honor to join you as a colleague. >> glad to be part of the family. >> you make us think better of ourselves. let me start by asking you about that decision, howard university decision. you will be there for us on tuesday. what you think that says about the harris campaign and choosing to land it. >> it speaks to the potential
historic significance of this campaign if she is victorious. even running as a candidate, as the first woman who has a south asian and jamaican heritage, so it speaks to that, but it says something about the importance of the word we in her campaign. she has talked about bringing people along with her. when you hear trump, so often he talks about policy that feels he's doing something to america instead of for america and by going to howard she's reaching back to an important milestone and saying i am creating an america about unity. i am willing to work across the aisle. even though she said a historically black college, you will see a rainbow of people which is something you probably want to see where would donald trump is and you have not seen in all his rallies. it's a culmination of her campaign in this historic moment and reaching into it as she has.
she hasn't really leaned into her gender or leaned into her blackness or south asian or caribbean. she is saying i am all of that and she's leaning into it. >> i will open this to everybody. do you feel we are far enough in the campaign that we know the consequences of that strategic decision by this candidate and this campaign. the stark difference between hillary clinton campaign talked about gender and the stark nature of her candidacy versus the lack of that discussion from kamala harris and she has not been leaning into the historic nature of around racial background in terms of what that would mean for the presidency. it's been interesting to note and we have scene unfold live, but are we far enough in and getting update to help polling looks and other things that we know what the consequences of those decisions are? >> she's not leaning into it but i want to make one clarification. she's not running away from it.
she spoke to charlamagne tha god. she talked about it in ways it's nuanced. i am not woman hear me roar. i am woman and i've stuff to do and i understand the issues that are important to women with the change in roe v. wade. also with that means for women across the board. it's not just abortion. in iowa, for instance, they are having a hard time holding onto doctors or recruiting doctors because of the six-week abortion ban. that affects women across the board, and she says i understand those issues. i think it's an indication she didn't have time. when you are running a sprint, normally a campaign is a marathon, and this was a sprint. she had to focus more on the issues and not be distracted by some of the issues, and i'm not saying race and gender are distraction, but sometimes used to try to pull off her message
and she stayed on message. >> i think we talk about it and the media gets captivated every four years by the narrative that any minute the black men are running to the republican party. it's her favorite train and it's never late. we never talk about white voters that much. it has been interesting to me that one of the stories it has not been told is the fact that a black and southeast asian women is polling at 49, 50% in the united states in these united states which means she's winning a significant share of white voters at the obama level, and in this 100 day campaign, she's done something hillary clinton could not do which is get white women to talk to each other about why they might want to join the coalition of other women, women of color. that seems to be happening and we feels it in the iowa poll or that's what they are telling posters that roe change their minds. what do you make of that?
>> i think it's part of the discipline she showed in this campaign. she understood abortion will be important. she was talking about this before july 21 when she actually stepped in. she was ready with that message, but she's talking about kitchen table issues. when she talked about that credit for people who are taking care of elderly, that's a universal issue. especially at a moment where baby boomers are marching beyond middle age, that is something that hits a lot of people. what we may also see she picked up a lot of white young voters. even while the trump campaign was working very hard, particularly to go after young white man, a lot of people get close to that and it's like when you are at the carnival and you are about to write those rickety rides and you see that sign, right at your own risk? you get close to it and think, i'm not sure i want to do that.
she has asked people to think about the america they want to live in, in and effective way and the pullshowthat. >> underscoring the point that we heard from dave former minneapolis police officer earlier of the closing message for people deciding at the end, who they will vote for and whether to vote, that risk factor you are describing may be everything michelle noris we are honored to have you among us.   we will be right back. ight. if you're living with hiv, imagine being good to go without daily hiv pills. good to go off the grid. good to go nonstop. with cabenuva, there's no pausing for daily hiv pills. for adults who are undetectable, cabenuva is the only complete, long-acting hiv treatment you can get every other month. it's two injections from a healthcare provider. just 6 times a year. don't receive cabenuva if you're allergic to its ingredients or if you're taking certain medicines which may interact with cabenuva.
serious side effects include allergic reactions, post-injection reactions, liver problems, and depression. if you have a rash and other allergic reaction symptoms, stop cabenuva and get medical help right away. tell your doctor if you have liver or kidney problems, mental health concerns, and if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or considering pregnancy. some of the most common side effects include injection-site reactions, fever, and tiredness. with cabenuva, you're good to go. ask your doctor about switching.

four months we've seen a steady stream of highly produced fake videos meant to push misinformation about vice president kamala harris and her campaign or the election itself, voting mechanics. now the fbi's warning about videos in which the fbi itself is being impersonated., quote,
the fbi is aware two videos falsely claiming to be from the fbi relating to election security. one stating the fbi has apprehended three linked groups committing ballot fraud in a second relating to the second gentleman. these are not authentic, not from the fbi, and the content they depict is false. that's a bold call to impersonate the fbi. >> i feel like i was ready for the deepfake videos with people being like, this candidate did a horrible thing to me. they would say that's a russian video. i was not ready this would be the election cycle where we got fake law-enforcement videos, fake fbi videos that are supposed to be the authority to whom we appeal for real information. >> obviously, the platform formerly known as twitter is the vector for this right now which is in the hands of a guy has been $100 million tried to get trump elected. >> according to the wall street journal he has been communicating directly with vladimir putin since 2022.
can you imagine another time where a major ceo is having communication with a foreign adversary and we would be like, that's life. that's where we are. >> leading a war against one of our key allies in the wall street journal reported that trump has been talking to other in the vladimir putin's government including the guy the justice department said running the russian interference election on behalf of term. >> you need tech guidance to do that. >> i guess that is right. stay with us. with us. arexvy is a vaccine used to prevent lower respiratory disease from rsv in people 60 years and older. arexvy does not protect everyone and is not for those with severe allergic reactions to its ingredients. those with weakened immune systems may have a lower response to the vaccine. the most common side effects are injection site pain, fatigue, muscle pain, headache and joint pain. arexvy is number one in rsv vaccine shots. rsv? make it arexvy.
with vaseline, hydrated skin is just the beginning. level up to even toned, radiant skin. new vaseline radiant x body lotion with 1% niacinamide. level up to even toned skin. with vaseline, hydrated skin is just the beginning. level up to even toned, radiant skin. new vaseline radiant x body lotion with 1% niacinamide. level up to even toned skin.
what would you pay for an ipad pro? i only paid $42 on dealdash. dealdash.com, online auctions since 2009. this playstation 5 sold for only 50 cents. and this smart charcoal grill sold for $16. and this nintendo switch sold for less than $20. deals like these and many more happen in the thousands of daily auctions on dealdash.com. all auctions start at $0 - and remember, everything must go. i got this kitchenaid stand mixer for only $56. i got this bbq smoker for 26 bucks. and you get a 90 day money-back guarantee with your first purchase. this brand-new iphone sold for less than $42. and this dji drone sold for less than $21. and i got it for 16 bucks on dealdash. and shipping is always free. go to dealdash.com right now and see how much you can save. there are auctions going on right now, so what are you waiting for?
in case you have not heard, tomorrow is the last full day the 2024 presidential campaign. donald trump has four rally scheduled across north carolina, pennsylvania, and michigan ending with a rally in grand rapids. kamala harris will spend the day in pennsylvania with rallies and allentown, philly, pittsburgh. for us, we will have a full day of coverage and a full day and night of regular shows. i will be here at 9:00 eastern. then tuesday we have nonstop coverage starting early in the morning. is group will gather at 6:00 p.m. eastern and we will stay here all night and into the morning. it's going to be great. great. it's going to be great.    this sunday, the final sprint.