russia with lev." executive produced byrachelherself. that will do for me. two in tomorrow to the sundayshowwhen we will dive into new nbc news polling numbers with nbc senior political editor mark murray and democratic strategist and political analyst cornell belcher that is smart 6:00 p.m. eastern right here on msnbc. i am jonathan capehart. a special edition of "therachelmaddowshow" is up next. ♪ ♪   i know this is a weird time to see me. you are not used to seeing me right now but i know not usually on fridays. i'm not usually here at 8:00 p.m. eastern. tonight i am here because i wanted to be here for the debut of my new movie. one hour from now, 9:00 eastern
here on msnbc , it will be the broadcast premiere of the first feature documentary from my production company for the movie is called "from russia with lev." it is probably speaking about the first trump impeachment. we made the film with director billy corbin, and produced offered spellman. we made it with them in large part because they are very, very funny. as disastrous and terrible as this scandal was, what trump did to get himself impeached the first time is forgotten but it was really terrible. in equal measure to how terrible it was, it was also ridiculous and stupid and hilarious. that story is the story of the film. it starts at 9:00. we have a normalshowthis hour with lots of news to get to. i have a couple of good guests
that i'm looking for to talking to. stories that are developing right now live as we speak. as soon as this hour is over, at 9:00 p.m. eastern it will be the movie. just you know what you're in for, if you do not mind, i willshowyou the trailer for the movie. it is only two minutes. and then we will jump right into the news. i want you to see the trailer. here it is "from russia with lev." >> i was close as you get to the most powerful man in the world. i really thought it was of transient degree made in heaven. >> what conversations i've you had a? >> i was wrong. >> we immigrated when i was a four-year-olds while other kids are going to the school. i was hustling. [ laughter ] >> we were invited to a huge fundraiser. >> we were two seats away from trump. instantly, it was like, no one else was in the room. >> he was a new york hustler and we can relate. [ laughter ]
>> this is a guy who is in a state of shock that he was at this level. >> in a year and a half i went not knowing anything from politics and i'll be in the inner circle of the president. it is hilarious to see my thinking pens with all these republican congressmen and senators. >> how are these thugs with our political leaders can >> trump's biggest nightmare was joe biden. >> let us go after joe. let michael after hunter. >> that is how i was recruited by donald trump and rudy giuliani. >> they run around ukraine, ridiculous. he is not qualified. >> no guard rails. no oversight. >> this is right out of a spy thriller. >> this was mission impossible, mission stupid. i do not know which one but maybe both. >> i know nothing about him. >> this was not a normal
presidency. >> i betrayed ukraine and i betrayed america. i hope one day i can say i am sorry. i hope one day hunter biden can forgive me. >> they turned you into the super villain. i was not very sympathetic. >> that is it. from russia with lev will get its broadcast from you right here at the end of the hour, 9:00 eastern. after the movie ends i will be on the 11th hour on msnbc to talk about it a little bit. i hope you will stick around for it. it has been a labor of love my first documentary feature. thank you for indulging me. here is where we are.   kamala harris has just wrapped up a big rally in swing state wisconsin tonight. earlier today she was in swing
state georgia doing more big campaign events. she also did a really splashy high-profile campaign event last night in swing state michigan with oprah winfrey. you may have seen clips from that today. a dramatic event with one of the students who was recently shot in that horrific school shooting in georgia was there last night at the event with her mom. both of them spoke emotionally at that event. also the mother and sisters of a 28-year-old georgia woman named amber nicole thurman. she was on mom and a medical assistant. she died because of george's trump abortion ban. ms. thurman needed a medical procedure that has been criminalized because of the state's abortion ban. a georgia hospital would not do that procedure for her and tell the infection that she had had advanced so far but it was impossible to save her life. she is being called the first woman to be killed by one of
the trump abortion ban after the judges he appointed overturn roe v. wade. ms. thurman's family are completely bereft at her boss. they were there last night tearfully at the harris event in michigan with oprah winfrey it was a very emotional thing. i'm not sure i have ever seen a presidential campaign event quite like that but it was really something. for what it's worth the polling averages right now and all those three swing states i just mentioned, michigan, where kamala harris held her event last night, georgia, where she was earlier today. wisconsin, where she just wrapped up tonight. harris and trump right now are all within two or three points of each other or outright tide. the presidential race is tied. nationally it is tied. and that is clearly why kamala
harris is campaigning her heart out. three major swing states in 24 hours all very high-profile events. how are things going on the trump's of the campaign? in contrast to harris jetting from michigan to georgia to wisconsin in this one 24 hour period, trump industry four hour period has gone solo today. no events, no travel, no appearances. that said, that may be for the best for his campaign the last event he did for his campaign was yesterday and it produced headlines like this all day today. this was at huffington post today. donna shocks: if i lose, blame the jews . i should say, in fairness, ss i need to note that this headline from our friends at huffington post is entirely accurate.
you may think they are exacting with a headline like that but they are not. here's what it looks like tonight. trump: the blame the jews if i lose. again in fairness to the people who operate the drudge report, that headline is accurate because that is a fair characterization that is what trump said. he did it twice. it started at an event that was supposed to be against anti- semitism -- stick a pin in an amazing fact. he got up and he said this. i am not going to call this a prediction but in my opinion, the jewish people would have a lot to do with a loss. meaning, they have a lot to do with an election lost by him. that was the first event. and then he went to a second event last night and he said it again even more pointedly, just in case people did not get it the first time. at the second event, quote, if
i do not win this election, the jewish people would really have a lot to do with that if it happens. these were not closed-door events. this is him putting it on the record for the american people. if i lose the election, blame the jews . >> i'm not going to call this a prediction but in my opinion, the jewish people would have a lot to do with a loss. if i do not win this election and the jewish people would have a lot to do with that if that happens. >> right? what could possibly go wrong? jews are about 2% of the american population. according to republican candidate of president and the former president, if anything goes wrong, blame the jews. it will be that jews pulp.
jews or 2.4% of the american population . put it on them. as mentioned, the first comments were at an event that was supposed to be an anti-semitism event. what is anti-semitism? most of the time it is people saying, pay no attention to who is in charge because it is the jews in charge. you can blame them for all bad things. most of the time that is what anti-semitism looks like, which is exactly what trump is doing. just astonishing. we are 46 days out and republican candidate for president is telling america if i lose, blame jewish people. that is really where we are in the campaign right now. it turns out it is worse because this is not just a couple of comments at a couple of adjacent events. this is a theme week work of them.
would nothing ever happen, this is a different kind of week. a much worse one. all in the space of a few days. we have trump sanctify lose the election, blame the jews. within a day of that we get the release of an interview that has running mate did with the rnc prime time speaker, former host from the fox news channel, who very famously, just did a celebratory, totally uncritical two hour fan fest interview with a holocaust denier. in which the two talked about how hitler was not the bad guy in world war ii. this is a guy, it should be clear who says we need to be more understanding of the fact that hitler was just looking for a solution, and hinders -- in his words, an exceptional solution to the jewish problem. why can we not be more understanding ? he was not the bad guy . he was just looking for an acceptable solution to the jewish problem. after the summer fox news host
and the prime time rnc speaker interviewed him for two hours and praise him as the best public historian in the country, his podcast went to number one in the country. the most famous godfathers of holocaust denial in this country praised it and said they wanted credit. finally their words are getting out there. the number one podcast in the country apple podcast. on the day the white house had to put out a denunciation of that guy and the fact that a rnc prime time speaker did a laudatory two hour interview praising him. on the same day the wind is not to put out there denunciation of that, j.d. vance, the republican nominee for vice president taped an interview with that same rnc speaker and fox news host to adjust celebrate america's best public historian as the best public historian.
this holocaust denial guy. that j.d. vance interview, which was taped at that auspicious time has just come out. great timing. right in time for blame but jews day from his running mate . in that interview, again, has just come out. j.d. vance has made the case that we do not have a democracy in this country. not we should have a democracy in the future. he is not making that argument, although he kind of is. he is saying we do not have a democracy now. why is it that he things we do not have a democracy now? he says there is a secret powerful group who controls things behind the scenes. so we should blame them. >> in reality, we don't live in a real democracy in this country. the people who call the shots in this country have further and further divorced themselves from any kind of real democratic accountability.
>> it is like a junior high school class in how this stuff works. why do we always get holocaust denial and weird blame the jews stuff going along with antidemocratic movements and movements to end democracy and install a strongman or a fascist government instead? why do these things go together? wouldn't you know, that specific idea also came up. >> reporter: if you win and you start firing people who are acting against orders of their commander of chief and the rule of voters, the new york times:00 a fascist takeover. do you care? >> we have do not care. >> we have do not care. what we are going to do, some people will call it a fascist takeover. but that is not, you know, any concern to us. it is more than we can do. we are not going to care when i called a fascist takeover.
because after all our so-called democracy is a sham anyway. would it be so bad to give it up since we all know who is really in charge. trump says you can blame them if he loses. this is the worst theme week ever. trump did his blame the jews yesterday twice. just after the yes, it will look like a fascist takeover and no we do not care interview came out. today they are doing nothing. neither of them are doing campaign stuff at all. j.d. vance will do a live appearance with the same interviewer, a four profit ticketed event. trump is going to go to north carolina where his campaign says he has no plans to distance himself or denounce the republican candidate for governor, who trump endorsed their . the same candidate who announced himself online years ago as a, quote, a black nazi . quote, i am a black nazi.
those isolation points are not my embellishments , those are his, according to post that cnn has meticulously documented as those of republican cans for north carolina governor mark robinson. in other post he said he preferred hitler to any american politician in washington. now the latest reporting tonight his online remarks also include him explicitly praising mein kampf. , glenn goodman girl candidate is denying all of this. he is rejecting calls to quit the governor's race in north carolina. no republican in the state appear to have denounced him for the specific posts in which he praises hitler and eclairs himself to be a nazi. no republican need to distance himself from it and neither does trump and the deadline for removing mr. robinson from the ballot passed at midnight last night. apparently they are sticking
with him. i told you this is the worst theme week ever. but it continues. trump is standing by the guy who calls himself a nazi and praises hitler and mein kampf . he will go to north carolina tonight we will speak with the democratic party chair from north carolina. she is a real force of nature, one of the young rising stars. north carolina, super interesting, democrats do not usually win the residential race in north carolina. in my lifetime it has happened twice. once in 1976 with jimmy carter and once in 2008 with barack obama. that is it. republicans do have mark robinson at the top of the ticket calling himself a nazi . kamala harris and the democrats, right now, are running a pretty phenomenal and innovative campaign in north carolina.
as i mentioned, we will check in on that over the course of this hour as the republican implosion in that state continues to develop as a new story tonight. we will also check in tonight on georgia. it is one thing to talk about how we don't really have a democracy. democracy is not real. there is some secret enemy within that is in control. elections are all a ruse and a rigged game. it is one thing to talk about and another thing to see them try to put it into action. for weeks, we have been focusing intently on georgia. where pro trump republicans have been telegraphing, or anywhere else in the country, that they are going to refuse to certify george's election results in november and they refuse to say what the vote totals are. and it started in georgia as it did in many states with individual pro trump republicans in the counties refusing to certify individual election results but in
georgia, even though they had already got a good head start on the rest of the country, there were more certification refusals by georgia republicans than in any other state. georgia went one step with her when the installed pro trump people as majority on the state election board. since that majority has taken over on the election board, that board has furiously been changing all the state's election rules. among other things, to make it seem like it is a legal and allowed thing to refuse to certify election results. it is neither legal nor allowed. these dynamics and the worrying implications of them -- this is why i wrote a new york times op- ed a few weeks ago about what i am most worried about on election night and after. we should really be prepared, as a country, regardless of where you live, local republican election officials in multiple states are going to
refuse to sign off on election results and certify them it will happen in georgia and other swing states and all over the country. anywhere republicans have power. when that happens and the republicans refuse to certify, it will generate tons of bogus press reports and social media reports that are all designed to create the impression in the american public that something went wrong with the election but the results of the election cannot be known. if we cannot know the results of the election, what does that mean? there will be some other way to resolve who is an ex-president. we can figure that out with state legislators or the congress or the court or the streets. they're going to say, there is no clear results. or at least republican officials contesting the results in all these places. it must mean that something is wrong. it is all because the trump movement, very broadly, want you to believe that american elections are bad. they are not hiding this. they are very blunt about it
now. >> our elections are bad. >> say it more bluntly. that was him at that debate. our elections are bad. this is their basic message about the american system of government heading into the election a month and a half from right now. the way that looks in georgia is that republicans have been refusing to certify previous elections since 2020 and they have been gearing up to not certify in november. in order to it the false impression that elections are somehow bad and there is no clear results. we will have to decide the some other way. that is what i have been worried about and talking about and trying to raise the alarm about for weeks now. today they have gone a step further it is one thing to try to convince people that there is something wrong with election results when there is not anything wrong with our elections. that is what the certification refusals stuff is about.
to create the false impression that something is wrong with an election that actually was fine. it is something else entirely to actually mess with the election. to actually try to prevent the timely and normal tallying of the results. and that is what happened today in georgia. today in a marathon meeting in georgia the new pro trump majority of the georgia state election board passed a whole bunch of new rules, yet more new rules, 46 days out from the election, including one that requires a hand count of ballot . reminder that georgia has 11 million people. i will quote from the washington post's coverage of this shock decision today in georgia. democracy advocate accused the board of intentionally injecting chaos and uncertainty into the presidential contest. election supervise and poll workers set a hand count would take too long, cost money and
produce counting errors. the office of a republican state attorney general, responsible for advising the board, wrote in an opinion that the change was, quote, unlawful. nevertheless, the board voted 3- 2 to approve the measure. research and practice have shown that hand counting ballots is less accurate than machine tallies. and that it can take days, weeks or months, depending on the size of the jurisdiction. again, 11 million people in georgia. critics say because the requirement would almost certainly inject air into the tabulation process, it could get county boards the evidence they need, meaning the pretext they need, to delay certification. some question whether it amounts to intentional sabotage of state elections. it is one thing to say falsely that there something wrong in the elections. it is another thing to actually munchy -- so georgia cannot count its vote.
radical stuff going on in georgia. not just creating false propaganda about election problems that are not there but moving on to actually creating re-election problems for real. they will try to take georgia take months to count? it is not just going to test our patience, it would break the system. if it is going to take months, the deadlines for georgia and every other state producing their electoral votes will have long past. the good news here is that georgians turned out insignificant numbers today to say no to desperately opposition was sustained an articulate and very present and i cannot help but believe that that matters. i will ask them and who knows. a member of the georgia state election board will join us live right here, next. step back out there with fasenra.
fasenra is an add-on treatment for eosinophilic asthma that is taken once every 8 weeks. ( ♪♪ ) fasenra helps prevent asthma attacks. most patients did not have an attack in the first year. fasenra is proven to help you breathe better so you can get back to doing day-to-day activities. and fasenra helps lower the use of oral steroids. fasenra is not for sudden breathing problems or other eosinophilic conditions. allergic reactions may occur. don't stop your asthma treatments without talking with your doctor. tell your doctor if your asthma worsens. headache and sore throat may occur. tell your doctor if you have a parasitic infection. get back to better breathing. get back to what you've missed. ask your doctor about fasenra, the only asthma treatment taken once every 8 weeks. if you can't afford your medication, astrazeneca may be able to help.
[introspective music] recipes. recipes written by hand and lost to time. are now being analyzed and restored using the power of dell ai. ♪ a bend with a bump in your erection might be painful, embarassing, difficult to talk about, and could be peyronie's disease or pd,
a real medical condition that urologists can diagnose and have been treating for more than 8 years with xiaflex®, the only fda-approved nonsurgical treatment for appropriate men with pd. along with daily gentle penile stretching and straightening exercises, xiaflex has been proven to help gradually reduce the bend. don't receive if the treatment area involves your urethra; or if you're allergic to any of the ingredients. may cause serious side effects, including: penile fracture or other serious injury during an erection and severe allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis. seek help if you have any of these symptoms. do not have any sexual activity during and for at least 4 weeks after each treatment cycle. sudden back pain reactions and fainting can happen after treatment. tell your doctor if you have a bleeding condition or take blood thinners as risk of bleeding or bruising at the treatment site is increased. join the tens of thousands of men who've been prescribed xiaflex. make an appointment with a xiaflex-trained urologist. visit bentcarrot.com to find one today.
why choose a mobile network built for places you'll probably never be... ...instead of for where you are most of the time? xfinity mobile was designed for where you need it most. xfinity internet customers, ask how to get a free 5g phone and a second unlimited line free for a year.
the idea that you are not going to listen to the individuals that are charged with conducting elections is absurd to me. we all have given our lives, most of us for decades in these career paths. and to say we do not know what we are talking about, you would not say that to any other professional. i have state a lot of waffle
houses but does not qualify me to operate a waffle has listen to the experts. >> listen to the experts. that was a local elections director from douglas county, georgia, today. speaking before the state elections board. before that board voted on a whole bunch of new rules that aim to radically change the way elections are run in georgia. just a month and a half before election day. the board held a public comment period before taking a vote. dozens of people showed up to do what is a civic duty in a circumstance like this. tell the board to be on the record opposing these radical changes to essentially undo the state election rules and processes right before the presidential race. >> the recent actions of the board so chaos and dramatically undermine trust in our constitutional republic and its democratic processes. >> i am glad to serve as a poll
worker even though it can be cumbersome, tiring and stressful at times. all of these proposals are tempting to remedy problems that do not exist. >> this timeline is not just tight, it is impossible. imagine the uncertainty and confusion and the added burden on election workers and county budgets. these rules do not protect our elections, they undermine them. >> your actions attempt to stack the deck for particular outcome and that is the definition of antidemocratic. >> i think what is happening is we are setting up our county to fail. when they are in accuracies, if there is a result in the election that some of the members of this board do not like, they will be able to point to those in accuracies and they will say that the election is not accurate. there is a lot -- lack of
integrity in the election. >> the last speaker is a state representative in georgia. she is on the election board that i am on to you. she believes that the motive behind what they're doing is not just to create an illusion that there something wrong with george's election results but actually to set georgia elections up to fail and make the administration of the election so chaotic and impossible that georgia actually won't be able to produce a clear result and then they can point at that and say, look at how these problems in our elections. we should throw out the vote . or at least we should fight over this and have this tied up in court so long that may be the state's votes for the electoral college may never make it in time for the electoral college count. joining us now is sarah tyndall gesell, the lone democrat on the georgia state election board and voted against the
ballot measure today. it has been a long day and a very stressful period. >> i am happy to be here. >> can i ask you if you feel like -- if i have been mischaracterizing anyone that has happened or if you feel like the public understanding probably as the nation eye turns to georgia. has there been any fundamental misunderstandings about what is happening? if you'd like how this is observing from afar understand what is going on? >> the one thing i want to make sure is clear is that we are not hand tableting the ballots. we are hand counting the number of ballot. again, we are just weeks away from the elections. for counties to try to retrain their poll workers and managers for them to hire more workers because workers who have been out there for 14 or 16 hours a day and are not in any shape to
count thousands of ballot accurately. i do not see any other explanation for this other than exactly as representative draper said, which is setting counties up for failure. >> a lot of people who been watching what has been happening, particularly now that the secretary of state has weighed in and advised that some of these proposed changes seem to be in contravention of georgia law now the attorney general's office have weighed in and said some of these chains are beyond the statutory authority of the board none of it will stand but this will all get blocked by the courts that george's elections will not be affected by the chaos that these rules, at least on paper, would inject into the process. do you share that confidence? you think the courts will come to the rescue here and keep george's normal election procedures in place?
>> i certainly have hope that they will do that. confidence, i'm not nearly as confident as some of the commentary that i have seen and read it because it is a narrow window both in terms of time and in terms of the legal theory. it is hard to see the steak. there is sovereign immunity questions that come into play. the fact that my colleagues are willing to completely disregard advice of our counsel. we are represented by the attorney general's office. we were told that this was not an awful use of our authority. i found quite shocking. >> i wondered when i saw that today, especially when the chairman of the board, who voted the same way on these role changes, when he noted at today's hearing, we are taking this action. if you vote in favor, this is in contravention of the legal
advice we are given as well to we are legally allowed to do. i wonder if there might be worries among majority of the board that voted for the changes that they might have been contravening georgia law by taking this vote and try to take actions that are not legally allowed to take. >> you would think but i also would suspect that if they were actually concerned about it they would have voted differently. counting the ballots is a feeder, frankly. it does not have actual security. there is so many backups and ways of making sure that we know how many ballots were cast that it is confirmed three different ways. it seems that they have some other motive. >> sara tindal ghazal, the lone democrat on the georgia election board but as i said, i know you are in a very difficult spot. the eyes of the nation are on georgia. thank you for talking to us again. i hope you not mind coming back
as these evolve. it will be an important next 46 days to see how this all results in your critical state. >> i hope i will have better news next time. >> me too. thank you for your service and being here. >> my pleasure. >> much more ahead tonight. stay with us. h us customi ble opn chain, easy-to-use tools and paper trading to help sharpen your skills, you can stay on top of the market from wherever you are. e*trade from morgan stanley power e*trade's easy to-use tools make complex trading less complicated. custom scans can help you find new trading opportunities, while an earnings tool helps you plan your trades and stay on top of the market. e*trade from morgan stanley
(♪♪) (♪♪) voltaren... for long lasting arthritis pain relief. (♪♪)
when i was diagnosed with h-i-v, i didn't know who i would be. but here i am... being me. keep being you... and ask your healthcare provider about the number one prescribed h-i-v treatment, biktarvy. biktarvy is a complete, one-pill, once-a-day treatment used for h-i-v in many people whether you're 18 or 80. with one small pill, biktarvy fights h-i-v to help you get to undetectable—and stay there whether you're just starting or replacing your current treatment. research shows that taking h-i-v treatment as prescribed and getting to and staying undetectable prevents transmitting h-i-v through sex. serious side effects can occur, including kidney problems and kidney failure. rare, life-threatening side effects include a buildup of lactic acid and liver problems. do not take biktarvy if you take dofetilide or rifampin. tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines and supplements you take, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have kidney or liver problems, including hepatitis. if you have hepatitis b do not stop taking biktarvy without talking to your healthcare provider. common side effects were diarrhea, nausea, and headache. no matter where life takes you, biktarvy can go with you. talk to your healthcare provider today.


in 2008 barack obama won north carolina by less than a third of a point but the only time a democratic presidential candidate has won north carolina in the past 48 years not since jimmy carter did it the first time democrat are optimistic about their chances in north carolina and that is thanks, in some part, to republicans decision to nominate mark robinson as their candidate for governor. a man with more offensive positions of all of north carolina's college of all teams combined. a new cnn report has found that mr. robinson posted in an online forum years ago that he considers himself to be a, quote, black nazi , exclamation point. he enjoyed a personal history of spying on women in public gym showers. they have also described his history of disparaging civil rights icon martin luther king in starkly
racist terms. it goes on and on the latest report includes mark robinson's praise both for hitler and mein kampf. nbc news has not verified those posts and mr. robinson is denying making them. his denial was, quote, these are not our words. who else are they not kamala harris is out with a new ad featuring her opponent, donald trump, heaping praise on mark robinson. north carolina democrats seem to be optimistic about what they may be able to do. the democratic party chair in the state, anderson clayton, told the new yorker today, quote, what is kamala harris' biggest fight it is getting people to believe that winning is possible. that is what will turn people out to vote. clayton, looking to the margin world counties is leaning on
the harris campaign to schedule an appearance by the vice president in places like rural wilson and nash counties. she said, give me a day. people get excited when they see her. people are ready to run through a brick wall. joining us now from raleigh is anderson clayton, chair of the indiscriminate democratic party. thanks for being here. >> thank you for having us. >> the mark robinson news is bad, weird and keeps getting weirder and weirder. i want to ask your reaction to these new revelations about his past online statements. >> we know this is no different than the mark robinson who's been campaigning across north carolina for best year spewing hateful rhetoric and going after hass of the state population with attacking women in the state and lgbtq community in the state. and also looking at attacking public educators. mark robinson has said that folks are indoctrinate our children in public schools as
has his counter bark -- counterpart. we have got this republican extremism up and down about an assessment donald trump and does not end with mark robinson. >> the democrats were trying to contest north carolina. they have really felt like north carolina ought to be in their column. the republican slate, this year, everyone knows is going to help in those efforts. what about the democratic ground game? the new yorker is reporting that the harris campaign is more than 230 paid staff members in north carolina. at least 170 assigned to 26 field offices. are you pleased with the way the harris campaign and the democrats have been able to structure an organization to win the state? >> absolutely. we have been in coordination with our campaign from the harris operation and also down the ballot making sure candidates across the state fill the impact of the election.
initially we have a ground game with our part 100 team through the state party. making sure every penny will have a get out the vote staging location that will help with doorknocking and canvassing efforts and phone banking efforts because we want to make sure that we have efforts happening. we know that the 74,000 votes that joe biden lost the state by in 2020 that it brought down the margins that we saw hillary clinton lose the state by in 2016. we know we can bring those margins back with every single vote across canada coming out but if anyone would like to get involved they can go to ncdot.org to help us out. >> anderson clayton, north carolina democratic chair. changing the narrative about wirral errors should be written off as republican areas. change that narrative around the country by doing the work ms. clayton, thanks for being with us. look for to have you back. >> thank you. >> we will be right back.
(♪♪) i'm getting vaccinated with pfizer's pneumococcal pneumonia vaccine. so am i. because i'm at risk for pneumococcal pneumonia. come on. i already got a pneumonia vaccine, but i'm asking about the added protection of prevnar 20®. if you're 19 or older with certain chronic conditions like asthma, diabetes, copd, or heart disease, or are 65 or older, you are at increased risk for pneumococcal pneumonia. prevnar 20® is approved in adults to help prevent infections from 20 strains of the bacteria that cause pneumococcal pneumonia. in just one dose. don't get prevnar 20® if you've had
a severe allergic reaction to the vaccine or its ingredients. adults with weakened immune systems may have a lower response to the vaccine. the most common side effects were pain and swelling at the injection site, muscle pain, fatigue, headache, and joint pain. i want to be able to keep my plans. i don't want to risk ending up in the hospital with pneumococcal pneumonia. that's why i chose prevnar 20®. ask your doctor or pharmacist about the pfizer vaccine for pneumococcal pneumonia. liberty mutual customized my car insurance so i saved hundreds. with the money i saved i thought i'd get a wax figure of myself. oh! right in the temporal lobe! beat it, punks! only pay for what you need. ♪ liberty, liberty, liberty, liberty ♪ so, what are you thinking? i'm thinking... (speaking to self) about our honeymoon. what about africa? safari? hot air balloon ride? swim with elephants? wait, can we afford a safari? great question. like everything, it takes a little planning. or, put the money towards a down-payment... ...on a ranch ...in montana ...with horses let's take a look at those scenarios.
j.p. morgan wealth management has advisors in chase branches and tools, like wealth plan to keep you on track. when you're planning for it all... the answer is j.p. morgan wealth management. a perfect day for a family outing! shingles doesn't care. but shingrix protects. only shingrix is proven over 90% effective. shingrix is a vaccine used to prevent shingles in adults 50 years and older. shingrix does not protect everyone and is not for those with severe allergic reactions to its ingredients or to a previous dose. an increased risk of guillain-barré syndrome was observed after getting shingrix. fainting can also happen. the most common side effects are pain, redness, and swelling at the injection site, muscle pain, tiredness, headache, shivering, fever, and upset stomach. ask your doctor or pharmacist about shingrix today. at betmgm, everyone gets a welcome offer. shivering, fever, so whether you're courtside trying to hit the over...
or up here trying to hit the under. whew! or, hitting that win with your crew. ohhh! yes, see defense! or way up here with a same game parlay. yaw! betmgm's got your back. get your welcome offer. and play with the sportsbook born in vegas. all these seats. really? get up to a $1500 new customer offer in bonus bets when you sign up now. betmgm. download and bet today. with bugs, the struggle-is-real. that's why you need zevo traps. zevo works 24/7 to attract and trap flying insects. for effortless protection. zevo. people-friendly. bug-deadly. if you have chronic kidney disease, you can reduce the risk of kidney failure
with farxiga. because there are places you'd like to be. farxiga can cause serious side effects, including ketoacidosis that may be fatal, dehydration, urinary tract, or genital yeast infections, and low blood sugar. a rare, life-threatening bacterial infection in the skin of the perineum could occur. stop taking farxiga and call your doctor right away if you have symptoms of this infection, an allergic reaction, or ketoacidosis. ♪ farxiga ♪   just in time for the lawsuits that are sure to follow this chaos that was created by the georgia state election board today, we also have this friendly reminder for attorneys in georgia a reminder from some of their fellow lawyers quote, do not lose your law license because of trump. this ad is running in georgia reminding lawyers about what happened to trump lawyers in
the last election when they took part in his attempt to overturn the election results. the ad comes from a legal watchdog group called the 65 project. it is named after the 65 failed lawsuits that pro trump lawyers filed in 2020 to overturn the election results that year. many of the lawyers involved in the lawsuits and other elections subversion efforts in 2020, like the fake electors, many lawyers have faced ethic investigation and disciplinary hearings and judicial sanctions . some have been criminally charged what they did but really gianni and john easement have their law licenses suspended. now the 65 project is reminding lawyers that that is what happened. they are running web ads in michigan, pennsylvania and wisconsin but . ads like this one will appear in legal journals in those states. you see the headline, do not let partisan politics endanger your standing with the bar. lawyers take a to stand as
officers of the court, bound by a code of conduct and ethical obligations that require them to speak truthfully to the court and public. lawyers cannot uphold that duty while bringing actually and legally baseless claims for do not risk your law license by joining an effort to subvert democracy. this is lawyers talking to lawyers. in tim snyder's essential little handbook on tyranny, 20 lessons from the 20th century lesson number five is this. remember professional ethics. when political leaders that a negative example, professional commitments to just practice become more important. it is hard to subvert a rule of law state without lawyers. or to holdshowtrials without judges. in other words when trump comes to state looking for lawyers to file frivolous baseless lawsuit to monkeywrench the election overthrow election results, if
the legal profession is doing its job, he should have a hard time finding lawyers to say yes to that. among all the other institutions we have in our country, professional organizations have a part to play in maintaining their standards, policing their own members so they do not participate in antidemocratic schemes. that is what project 65 is doing. providing a concrete example of how to do just that. their first at in georgia lands this morning. quote, we and the public are watching. this is one very specific form of democracy in action. democracy being defended by people, by citizens who are not worried about going on offense to do it. that is what it looks like. we will be right back.
upset stomach iberogast indigestion iberogast bloating iberogast thanks to a unique combination of herbs, iberogast helps relieve six digestive symptoms to help you feel better. six digestive symptoms. the power of nature. iberogast.
everybody wants super straight, super white teeth. they want that hollywood white smile. new sensodyne clinical white provides 2 shades whiter teeth and 24/7 sensitivity protection. i think it's a great product. it's going to help a lot of patients. ♪ [suspenseful music] trains. [whoosh] ♪ trains that use the power of dell ai and intel. clearing the way, [rumble] [whoosh] so you arrive exactly where you belong. my mental health was better. but uncontrollable movements called td, tardive dyskinesia, started disrupting my day. td felt embarrassing. i felt like disconnecting. i asked my doctor about treating my td, and learned about ingrezza.
♪ ingrezza ♪ ingrezza is clinically proven for reducing td. most people saw results in just two weeks. people taking ingrezza can stay on most mental health meds. number-one prescribed ingrezza has simple dosing for td: always one pill, once daily. ingrezza can cause depression, suicidal thoughts, or actions in patients with huntington's disease. pay close attention to and call your doctor if you become depressed, have a sudden changes in mood, behaviors, feelings or have thoughts of suicide. don't take ingrezza if you're allergic to its ingredients. ingrezza may cause serious side effects, including angioedema, potential heart rhythm problems, and abnormal movements. report fevers, stiff muscles, or problems thinking as these may be life threatening. sleepiness is the most common side effect. take control by asking your doctor about ingrezza. ♪ ingrezza ♪

i'm a little nervous and a basket of butterflies behind the desk before. this is a movie i have been the king at for a while now but it is called "from russia with lev." it is the first feature documentary from my production company, surprise and side along with director billy corbin and producer alfred spellman from contra pictures. you are about to see the film is centered on a guy named lev
who grew up in the russian world of organized crime. he ended up in the trump white house. lev is repented about what he did and he recorded enter pictures of everything that he did as he did it. what he did, not only put himself in prison but it led to the first impeachment of donald trump, which is much forgotten by now because of editing it happened thereafter but it is still very important and also very stupid. "from russia with lev" is about to have its broadcast premiere after the movie on the 11th hour i will be here to take a -- talk about so well lev and his wife, who will become your new best friend. now it is time for jittery need to stop jabbering and let us roll the film. here it is "from russia with lev." it starts right now. ♪ ♪